Ultimate goal: 
Propose a carbon capture system that is more efficient than SOTA in terms of GJ energy / ton of CO2 captured.

Task:
Your goal is to come up with a research proposal that improves the carbon capture system and is different from both the given initial approach and research paper.

First, write down all the possible ways to solve the key problem. Use first principles and understand how the system works.

Then, write a new research proposal of how we can build a more efficient carbon capture system than the initial approach by leveraging the research paper's main findings to solve the key problem. Assume that the audience are researchers, but they are not familiar with the initial approach, key problem, or the research paper's main findings. Be sure to include 1) purpose, 2) background and current state summarizing both the initial approach and research paper's findings, 3) hypothesis, 4) methodology, 5) expected outcomes, 6) biggest risks and ways to mitigate those risks if possible. Make sure that you explain your reasoning of why this should or may not work, otherwise, no one will trust the research proposal.

Initial approach description:
We report a solid-state faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption system comprising an electrochemical cell that exploits the reductive addition of CO2 to quinones for carbon capture. The reported device is compact and flexible, obviates the need for ancillary equipment, and eliminates the parasitic energy losses by using electrochemically activated redox carriers. An electrochemical cell with a polyanthraquinone–carbon nanotube composite negative electrode captures CO2 upon charging via the carboxylation of reduced quinones, and releases CO2 upon discharge. The cell architecture maximizes the surface area exposed to gas, allowing for ease of stacking of the cells in a parallel passage contactor bed. We demonstrate the capture of CO2 both in a sealed chamber and in an adsorption bed from inlet streams of CO2 concentrations as low as 0.6% (6000 ppm) and up to 10%, at a constant CO2 capacity with a faradaic efficiency of >90%, and a work of 40–90 kJ per mole of CO2 captured, with great durability of electrochemical cells showing <30 percent loss of capacity after 7000 cycles.

Key problem with initial approach:
7. Sensitivity to oxygen: The presence of oxygen in the feed stream can cause oxidation of the reduced quinones, reducing the overall efficiency of the carbon capture system. Careful tuning of the electron density of the quinone polymer is required to avoid reactions with oxygen.

Tangential research paper's main findings:
Hydrogen-bonding and protonation are fundamental factors controlling potentials and mechanisms in the reduction of quinones. These are studied systematically in benzonitrile, acetonitrile, and dimethylsulfoxide solutions by cyclic voltammetry of a series of quinones of increasing basicity (chloranil to duroquinone), in the presence of hydroxylic additives of increasing hydrogen-bonding power (tert-butyl alcohol to hexafluoro-2-propanol) or acidity (trifluoroacetic acid). Electrochemical effects are demonstrated over the complete interaction range, from hydrogen bonding of reduced dianions to protonation of unreduced quinones. With increasing concentrations of additives, three clearly different types of electrochemical behavior are observed for weakly (I), moderately (II), and strongly (III) interacting quinone-additive pairs, as follows:  (I) Two well-separated reduction waves, corresponding to formation of quinone mono- and dianions, shift positively, with no loss of reversibility. The second wave is smaller, shifts more strongly, and finally merges with the first. The relative heights of the waves remain constant. (II) The positive shift is accompanied by increasing height of the first peak and broadening and irreversibility of the second wave. (III) One or even two, more positively shifted, new prior waves appear, together with a new anodic wave. In interpreting these phenomena, the role of hydrogen-bonding is clearly distinguished from protonation on the basis of pKa values of relevant species, effects of solvent variation, magnitude of potential shifts, and the onset of irreversibility. Type I behavior is attributed to stabilization by hydrogen-bonding of mono- and dianion reduction products; the number of bonds per quinone ion and bonding equilibrium constants are estimated from the shifts in peak potentials with additive concentration. These results are supported by simulating the experimental cyclic voltammograms using these parameters. Type III behavior is assigned to initial hydrogen-bonding or protonation of the quinones. Type II is attributed to a reduction mechanism involving disproportionation of primary radicals, assisted by hydrogen-bonding or protonation of the dianion.