2022 roadmap on low temperature electrochemical CO2 reduction
https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2515-7655/ac7823/meta
This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this site you agree to our use of cookies. To find out more,
see our
Privacy and Cookies policy.
Close this notification
Topical Review
•
The following article is
Open access
2022 roadmap on low temperature electrochemical CO2 reduction
Ifan E L Stephens33,34,1, Karen Chan33,34,2, Alexander Bagger3, Shannon W Boettcher4, Julien Bonin5, Etienne Boutin6, Aya K Buckley7, Raffaella Buonsanti8, Etosha R Cave7, Xiaoxia Chang9, See Wee Chee10, Alisson H M da Silva11, Phil de Luna12, Oliver Einsle13, Balázs Endrődi14, Maria Escudero-Escribano3, Jorge V Ferreira de Araujo15, Marta C Figueiredo16,21, Christopher Hahn17, Kentaro U Hansen18, Sophia Haussener6, Sara Hunegnaw7, Ziyang Huo7, Yun Jeong Hwang19,22, Csaba Janáky14,20, Buddhinie S Jayathilake17, Feng Jiao18, Zarko P Jovanov15, Parisa Karimi12, Marc T M Koper11, Kendra P Kuhl7, Woong Hee Lee19,24, Zhiqin Liang11, Xuan Liu11, Sichao Ma7, Ming Ma23, Hyung-Suk Oh24,25, Marc Robert5,26, Beatriz Roldan Cuenya10, Jan Rossmeisl3, Claudie Roy12, Mary P Ryan1, Edward H Sargent27, Paula Sebastián-Pascual3, Brian Seger28, Ludmilla Steier29,30, Peter Strasser31, Ana Sofia Varela32, Rafaël E Vos11, Xue Wang27, Bingjun Xu9, Hossein Yadegari1 and Yuxiang Zhou1
Show full author list
Published 3 October 2022 •
© 2022 The Author(s). Published by IOP Publishing Ltd
Journal of Physics: Energy,
Volume 4,
Number 4
Citation Ifan E L Stephens et al 2022 J. Phys. Energy 4 042003
DOI 10.1088/2515-7655/ac7823
Download Article PDF
Figures
Skip to each figure in the article
Tables
Skip to each table in the article
References
Citations
Article data
Skip to each data item in the article
What
is article data?
Open science
Data availability statement
No new data were created or analyzed in this study.
Peer review information
Method: Single-anonymous
Revisions: 1
Screened for originality? Yes
Download Article PDF
18557 Total downloads
View on Publons
Peer review
2 pre-publication reviewer reports
(2 anonymous)
Article
30 citations
in the Web of Science Core Collection
JournalJournal of Physics: Energy
published by IOP Publishing
Indexed in
Web of Science Core Collection
Operates
Transparent Peer Review
Submit to this Journal
Turn off MathJax
Turn on MathJax
Share this article
Article and author information
Author e-mailsi.stephens@imperial.ac.ukkchan@fysik.dtu.dk
Author affiliations1
Department of Materials, Imperial College London, Exhibition Road, SW7 2AZ London, United Kingdom
2
Catalysis Theory Center, Department of Physics, Technical University of Denmark, 2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark
3
Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2100, Denmark
4
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and the Oregon Center for Electrochemistry, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, United States of America
5
Laboratoire d'Electrochimie Moléculaire, Université Paris Cité, CNRS, Paris, F-75006, France
6
Laboratory of Renewable Energy Science and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, 1015, Switzerland
7
Twelve Benefit Corporation, 614 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA, 94710, United States of America
8
Laboratory of Nanochemistry for Energy (LNCE), Institute of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1950 Sion, Switzerland
9
College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of China
10
Department of Interface Science, Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Faradayweg 4-6, 14195 Berlin, Germany
11
Leiden Institute of Chemistry, Einsteinweg 55, 2333 CC Leiden, The Netherlands
12
Energy, Mining, and Environment Research Centre, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, ON K1A 0R6, Canada
13
Institute for Biochemistry, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany
14
Department of Physical Chemistry and Materials Science, University of Szeged, Rerrich square 1, Szeged, H-6720, Hungary
15
LIQUIDLOOP GmbH, Hardenbergstr. 38, AM1, Technical University Berlin, Berlin, 10623, Germany
16
Chemical Engineering and Chemistry Department, Eindhoven University of Technology, PO Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands
17
Materials Science Division, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA 94550, United States of America
18
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, 150 Academy Street, Newark, DE 19716, United States of America
19
Department of Chemistry, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea
20
eChemicles Zrt, Alsó Kikötő sor 11, Szeged, H-6726, Hungary
21
Eindhoven Institute of Renewable Energy Systems, PO Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands
22
Center for Nanoparticle Research, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea
23
School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710049, People's Republic of China
24
Clean Energy Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul 02792, Republic of Korea
25
KHU-KIST Department of Conversing Science and Technology, Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea
26
Institut Universitaire de France, F-75005 Paris, France
27
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 1A4, Canada
28
Section for Surface Physics and Catalysis(SurfCat), Department of Physics, Technical University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark
29
Department of Materials, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom
30
Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom
31
Department of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering Division, Technical University of Berlin, Strasse des 17. Juni 124, Berlin, 10623, Germany
32
Institute of Chemistry, UNAM, Mexico City, Mexico
Author notes33 Guest editors of the Roadmap.34 Authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.
ORCID iDsIfan E L Stephens https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2157-492XKaren Chan https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6897-1108Alexander Bagger https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6394-029XShannon W Boettcher https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8971-9123Julien Bonin https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9943-0219Etienne Boutin https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7216-2469Raffaella Buonsanti https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6592-1869Xiaoxia Chang https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6598-6083See Wee Chee https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0095-3242Alisson H M da Silva https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3198-3110Phil de Luna https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7729-8816Oliver Einsle https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8722-2893Balázs Endrődi https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3237-9222Maria Escudero-Escribano https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6432-3015Jorge V Ferreira de Araujo https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6979-2080Marta C Figueiredo https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9612-8698Christopher Hahn https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2772-6341Sophia Haussener https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3044-1662Sara Hunegnaw https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8344-404XYun Jeong Hwang https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0980-1758Csaba Janáky https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5965-5173Buddhinie S Jayathilake https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6002-6534Feng Jiao https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3335-3203Kendra P Kuhl https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2949-4951Woong Hee Lee https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5779-3246Sichao Ma https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8581-2216Ming Ma https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3561-5710Hyung-Suk Oh https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0310-6666Marc Robert https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7042-4106Beatriz Roldan Cuenya https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8025-307XJan Rossmeisl https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7749-6567Mary P Ryan https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8582-3003Paula Sebastián-Pascual https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7985-0750Brian Seger https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0036-095XLudmilla Steier https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7333-7857Ana Sofia Varela https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5536-9508Xue Wang https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6298-1858Bingjun Xu https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2303-257XHossein Yadegari https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2572-182XYuxiang Zhou https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7859-1731
Dates
Received 15 November 2021
Accepted 13 June 2022
Published 3 October 2022
Peer review information
Method: Single-anonymous
Revisions: 1
Screened for originality? Yes
Buy this article in print
Journal RSS
Sign up for new issue notifications
Create citation alert
2515-7655/4/4/042003
Abstract
Electrochemical CO2 reduction (CO2R) is an attractive option for storing renewable electricity and for the sustainable production of valuable chemicals and fuels. In this roadmap, we review recent progress in fundamental understanding, catalyst development, and in engineering and scale-up. We discuss the outstanding challenges towards commercialization of electrochemical CO2R technology: energy efficiencies, selectivities, low current densities, and stability. We highlight the opportunities in establishing rigorous standards for benchmarking performance, advances in in operando characterization, the discovery of new materials towards high value products, the investigation of phenomena across multiple-length scales and the application of data science towards doing so. We hope that this collective perspective sparks new research activities that ultimately bring us a step closer towards establishing a low- or zero-emission carbon cycle.
Export citation and abstract
BibTeX
RIS
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Original content from this work may be used under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 license. Any further distribution of this work must maintain attribution to the author(s) and the title of the work, journal citation and DOI.
IntroductionIfan E L Stephens and Karen ChanThe electrochemical reduction of CO2 offers enormous potential as a carbon neutral or carbon negative route to the production of platform chemicals and fuels. Since the seminal works by Hori in the 1980s through to the early 2000s [1, 2], the field had remained relatively static until 2010, when Peterson et al [3], Schouten et al [4], and their respective co-workers reignited interest. Since then, enormous progress has been made in reactor design and in tailoring materials. Even so, we still face numerous challenges on the road to large scale industrialization. In this roadmap, leading international researchers in the field provide a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art and also identify avenues for future progress.We have focussed specifically on low temperature electrochemical CO2 reduction, i.e. occurring below 100 °C. Nonetheless, as we acknowledge at several points in the manuscript, high temperature CO2 reduction can sometimes offer advantages over the low temperature counterpart and may even complement it (e.g. chapters 19 and 21). However, low temperature routes are at a more early stage in their technological development. Within this roadmap, for the purpose of brevity, and to maximise the scientific common ground, we have chosen not to include high temperature CO2 electrolysis and to focus on the more nascent, low temperature routes towards CO2 electro-valorisation.Kuhl et al, from the start-up, Twelve, commence the roadmap by establishing the industrial priorities for CO2 reduction (CO2R), emphasizing the technological and commercial challenges and opportunities ahead. Yadegari, Zhon and Ryan discuss the upstream challenges associated with capturing CO2; progress in this area will be essential if CO2R is to transition from a carbon neutral technology—contingent on waste CO2—to a carbon negative technology. Roy, Karimi and de Luna identify CO and ethanol as the most promising products for closing the carbon cycle.There are several challenges for experimentalists in evaluating the performance of CO2R. In particular, measuring the myriad products in a rigorous, transparent and meaningful manner is an untrivial task: Jayathilake and Hahn summarize best practices and also outline how they see testing progressing in the future. Jovanov, Ferreira de Araujo and Strasser explain the possibilities afforded by electrochemical mass spectrometry (EMS), both for quantifying performance in real time and also to elucidate reaction pathways.Benchmarking the performance is particularly challenging under conditions that resemble those in industrial devices; to that end, Hansen and Jiao outline the most important aspects to the employment of gas diffusion electrodes (GDEs). Within GDEs, there is a complex interplay between transport phenomena, solution phase reactions and charge transfer kinetics. Boutin and Haussener explain the challenges and opportunities in multi-scale modeling to rationalize these phenomena. Ma and Seger address a particularly important, but sometimes overlooked, challenge: how to maximize CO2 utilization. One means to do so is to employ bipolar membranes (BPMs), which Boettcher reviews in detail.Da Silva, Vos, Liang, Liu and Koper have identified some of the key open questions in the mechanistic understanding of CO2R; they suggest that exploring CO2R outside 'normal' conditions, such as in non-aqueous solvents or at high pressures, may yield new insights and open up new reaction pathways and products.Several contributions call for an increasing role for data science to understand CO2R, from the stack level, as described by Janaky and Endrődi, to the atomistic scale, as described by Bagger and Rossmeisl. Wang and Sargent advocate for machine learning techniques to accelerate the discovery of new materials. On a similar note, Chee, Roldan Cuenya, Xu, Chang, Lee, Oh and Hwang in their separate contributions all advocate for greater integration of multiple operando characterization techniques with catalytic testing to map out structure-property relationships in CO2R; they suggest that much complementarity is to be gained by comparing multiple techniques in a coherent and integrated manner.Sebastian Pascual and Escudero-Escribano describe the unique opportunities afforded by single crystals of copper in providing insight into CO2R; they envision how single crystal studies could be integrated with other spectroscopic techniques. Buonsanti discusses how findings on single crystals can be translated to more technologically relevant conditions by using well-defined nanoparticles.While copper is the most studied material for CO2R and is the only synthetic material to produce C2+ products at significant rates, several of our contributors, including Steier and Varela, have advocated the study of alternative materials. Einsle explains the key features that enable the nitrogenase enzyme to produce C2+ products. Boutin, Bonin and Robert discuss how well-defined molecular catalysts can reduce CO2 and CO. The solid state analogues to homogenous catalysts are single metal site doped carbon, which Varela has reviewed; while such catalysts can produce CO efficiently, she proposes that dual site catalysts—emulating nitrogenase—may be able to yield more reduced energy rich products than CO. Finally, going beyond merely reducing CO2, Figueiredo discusses the possibilities afforded by electrochemistry in the formation of C–N bonds.Despite the open fundamental and technological challenges that remain, significant fundamental and technological developments have been made over the past decade. We envision that continued and coordinated research efforts will pave the way towards the commercialization of CO2 electrolyzer technology, enabling the sustainable and scaleable production of some of our most important fuels and chemicals.AcknowledgmentsK C acknowledges a Grant 9455 from VILLUM FONDEN. I E L S acknowledges funding from the National Research Council Canada through the Materials for Clean Fuels Challenge Program and from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant Agreement No. 866402).1. What are the industrial priorities in the commercialization of CO2 electrolyzers?Kendra Kuhl, Sichao Ma, Etosha Cave, Aya Buckley, Sara Hunegnaw and Ziyang Huo Twelve Benefit Corporation, 614 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 94710, United States of AmericaStatusThe development of CO2 electrolysis has gained momentum within the past 10 years. Recent efforts have shifted toward understanding how the design of the electrolyzer itself affects the speed and efficiency of the reaction. Factors such as CO2 availability, pH, temperature, and electrolyte composition can greatly affect performance. CO2 as a feedstock can be particularly challenging due to the formation of bicarbonate and carbonate in aqueous solutions, this complicates the reactor design and reaction conditions. To achieve high current density (CD) and selectivity for CO2 electrolysis products, electrolyzers must be designed to deliver the requisite amount of CO2 to the cathode catalyst, which is challenging in the traditional purely aqueous systems due to the low solubility of CO2 in water.At this time, electrolyzer/catalyst combinations that reduce CO2 by 2e−'s, to make CO or formate/formic acid, are the most developed at the lab scale. Performance metrics for these systems—including CD, current efficiency, cell voltage, product output concentration, and lifetime—have achieved market entry-level and are ready to scale to the MW-level for industrial applications. Efforts are underway to push this further, with the goal to achieve the industrial tons per day scale utilizing a similar electrolyzer design.Continued electrolyzer/catalyst development for CO2 electrolysis, to further reduced products such as hydrocarbons and alcohols, is still necessary to make these processes commercially viable at scale. Unfortunately, few reports of electrolyzers with high selectivity to the desired product and high CD (e.g. greater than 200 mA cm−2) have been reported (see table 1). A better understanding of the reaction mechanism, impact of catalyst environment on performance, and how the environment can be controlled by electrolyzer design would accelerate commercial application. Those are the top industrial priorities for mass commercialization of CO2 electrolysis at this time.Table 1. Key performance metrics for industrially-relevant CO2 electrolysis.Key performance metricDesired rangeCurrent density (CD)>200 mA cm−2
Stack energy efficiency (EE)Up to 75%LifetimeUp to 50 000 hCurrent and future challengesLarger-scale commercialization of CO2 electrolysis faces performance challenges in the following areas: faradaic efficiency (FE), energy efficiency (EE), and CDs. Energy consumption (EC) per unit mass of the product is also used in industry to evaluate energy input for different chemical production processes. To make CO2 electrolysis competitive with conventional chemical production at large scales, EC needs to be further decreased, requiring a significant improvement in cell voltage and selectivity.In addition to EC challenges, CO2 utilization and lifetime are crucial factors that determine the success of commercializing the technology. These two important metrics were frequently ignored until recently. High CO2 utilization decreases the reactant and downstream purification costs, while long lifetimes of the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) ensures low operating costs and effective utilization of capital costs. Both are fundamental for expanding the technology to a wider market. Lifetime is mainly governed by the key components of the electrodes (or MEAs)—including electrocatalysts, polymer membranes and/or polymer binders, and gas diffusion layers (GDLs)—as well as the way they integrate together. GDL properties, which are relevant to CO2 utilization and lifetime, could also change during operation. For example, the wettability tends to increase under potential over time, which could cause the pores of GDLs to fill with water, thus blocking the pores for mass transfer of gaseous reactant into and product out of the active sites. Operating for more than 50 000 h is the current lifetime of commercial proton exchange membranes (PEMs) water electrolyzers; this is also the target of Twelve's PEM CO2 electrolyzers (see figure 1), which utilize the same reactor design. To reach this lifetime goal, it is necessary to demonstrate and understand the root causes of degradation and use this to guide improved materials development.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 1. Shows twelve's proton exchange membrane (PEM) CO2 electrolyzer for CO production. This system has reached the kg per day scale.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
ScaleupAnother challenge the industry faces to commercialize this technology is adapting the system for larger applications. The controlling units, electrolyzers, as well as everything within the electrolyzer (such as catalyst amount, flow fields, and bipolar plates) all need to be scaled up. As reactor size increases, the heat distribution and transfer within the electrolyzer will change, requiring a well-designed temperature control system to manage the actual operating temperature of the entire process. Water removal is critical to ensure efficient mass transport within the CO2 electrolyzers. As the system size increases, water removal from each cell within the stack and uniform distribution of gas to each cell must be regulated. CO2 electrolysis uses new electrocatalysts that are not off-the-shelf, thus scaling the manufacturing of these new active catalysts to support the requirements of larger units is necessary. Identifying proper materials and sourcing the right manufacturers for large-scale electrolyzer development is essential in building the hardware and expanding CO2 electrolysis to larger systems.CommercializationBeyond the technical priorities, there are commercial headwinds that emerging technologies must surmount. Often potential customers have CO2 emissions they want to eliminate but they lack the technology and knowledge to do so. Early conversations begin with a discussion on access to low-cost, carbon-free electricity, which is often the highest cost input for CO2 electrolysis. Subsequent conversations usually focus on the end product of the CO2 electrolysis, i.e. methanol, ethanol, polymers, liquid fuels. Typically sites do not have the demand for the end product, thus an off-taker needs to be identified and new value chains must be formed that introduce the CO2-based product into an pre-existing, petroleum-based market. This involves conversations among all parties regarding costing, supply, and other incentives for adopting low carbon fuels or products. This type of project development is often outside of the CO2 emitter's core business operations.The cost of capital for a first-of-a-kind system can make the project unpalatable to a risk-averse company seeking to reduce its CO2 emissions. Often the available commercial loans for emerging technologies have above-market interest rates, which can challenge the economic value of the overall project.Early technology developers must also be project developers, bringing the entire CO2 ecosystem to a site to ensure sufficient upstream (CO2 capture) and downstream components (thermochemical and biochemical upgrading) are integrated into one plant. This introduces the added challenge of providing internal project management, contract, and contingency expertise on the developer's side to support large-scale commercialization. Siting is another logistical challenge. Ideally CO2 electrolyzers would be located near areas with large amounts of cheap renewable electricity, and also adjacent to customer premises for direct integration into downstream process and to minimize the need for constructing new infrastructure. In some cases, where customer sites are not located in optimal cost conditions for electrolysis, the use of existing pipeline infrastructure could provide an economical method for transporting CO2 or downstream liquid fuels to customers.Despite these challenges, the industry is primed to expand CO2 electrolysis to larger commercial applications. With stricter regulations on the horizon and the impacts of climate change becoming more apparent, this technology is a necessary means to integrate industrial production into the future.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesPerformanceWhile there are many challenges to the commercialization of CO2 electrolyzers, the industry is effectively prioritizing research and development to overcome these challenges. A variety of recent works in the areas of membrane and catalyst development, device design, and device operation have targeted improving CO2 utilization and lifetime, decreasing EC, and scaling up reactor sizes. Recent studies characterizing how CO2R catalysts change under operational conditions [5, 6] and over time [7] yield insights into the relationship between catalyst structure and performance, and how these catalysts might be further optimized for improved performance and lifetime. Membrane durability may also impact system lifetime; there are several known decomposition pathways that may alter the properties of the membrane over time [8]. Continued development of more durable and more conductive membranes, through such strategies as crosslinking and new structural motifs, are necessary for improving device lifetime and efficiency [9]. Tuning of the device design and operational parameters will also be necessary to target limitations on lifetime, including the management of water or salt buildup, maintenance of CO2 mass transport, and sustained hydration of the membrane [10].Improving the quality of MEAs with a scalable and economical pathway will substantially enhance the performance of the CO2 conversion platform and make the electrolytic conversion more competitive in the market. Recent advances in MEA fabrication for CO2 electrolysis could be classified into two groups based on the supporting substrate for the catalyst layer: GDE with deposition upon a GDL, and catalyst coated membrane (CCM) with the integration of the catalyst layer on the polymer membrane [11, 12]. Either would inherently involve the catalyst ink preparation and sequent integration (deposition) process. To obtain high-quality and consistent inks, the active ultrafine powder and ionomer need to be mixed homogeneously and dispersed into desirable solvents by ultrasonication. At commercial scale, large volume, high shear mixing devices are required for ink preparation and continuous flow cell systems must be optimized to prevent ink separation during longer term storage. Among the latest advanced fabrication technologies, the ultrasonic spray coating system exhibited numerous advantages through manipulation of flow rate, nozzle power, etc. This allows for a series of layered structures where thickness, porosity, and mass loading can all be controlled. Other methods physical and chemical coating techniques [13] have advanced such that they are also viable options for low-cost mass manufacturing of CCMs. An optimized ink associated with the appropriate fabrication method is essential for high-end MEA production, and as catalyst ink technology advances so can CO2 electrolysis.CommercializationAlong with technological advances, there are several commercial and financial opportunities that will aid the deployment of CO2 electrolysis. Manufacturing advances and cost reductions are progressing with the CO2 electrolyzer itself. By using a standard module size, the CO2 electrolysis industry can capture manufacturing cost reductions as seen in the photovoltaics and battery sectors.Larger-scale CO2 electrolysis is dependent on low-cost carbon-free electricity. Power purchase agreements provide remote access to wind, solar and geothermal electricity and are on a steady downward cost trajectory according to BloombergNEF. Performance guarantees are another risk mitigation tool that can make deploying early-stage technology more palatable. With these guarantees, an insurer will cover any losses to the off-taker, if the new technology does not produce the desired output.Lastly, public-private partnerships where the federal and state governments co-invest alongside private investors will greatly increase the output of new technologies. The US Department of Energy, for example, has below-market-rate loans for clean energy that can reduce the cost to deploy a first-of-a-kind unit like a CO2 electrolysis system.These developments within the carbontech ecosystem are rendering CO2 electrolysis more reliable and economical, and their advancement helps set priorities for the industry as it expands to bigger commercial markets.Concluding remarksThe CO2 electrolysis market is accelerating by leveraging learning from related technologies (water electrolyzers, fuel cells, chlor alkali) and past research. Intensive interest in this technology, which began in academic labs, is now ready to scale to commercial industries. As CO2 technology becomes mainstream, we see a world where more and more products are made from CO2, and no CO2 is 'wasted' by being emitted to the atmosphere. CO2 electrolysis at scale can be a piece of the puzzle that mitigates the effects of climate change and the industry will rise to this call.AcknowledgmentsTwelve would like to thank the United States Small Business and Innovation Research Program within the National Science Foundation, NASA, the US Air Force, and the Department of Energy for their financial support of our work. We also acknowledge support from the following Department of Energy programs and offices: the Advanced Manufacturing Office, Chemical Catalysis for Bioenergy, the Office of Fossil Energy, Small Business Technology Transfer, High Performance Computing for Energy Innovation, SCALEUP, the Bioenergy Technologies Office, and the Technology Commercialization Fund. We further acknowledge the California Energy Commission's RAMP and CalSeed funding and private financial support through the Roddenberry, Keeling Curve, Ocean Exchange, TomKat Center, and Echoing Green awards.2. What is the future of CO2 capture for CO2 utilization?Hossein Yadegari, Yuxiang Zhou and Mary P Ryan Department of Materials, Imperial College London, Exhibition Road, SW7 2AZ London, United KingdomStatusCarbon capture and storage (CCS) generally refers to technologies which selectively capture CO2 from the atmosphere and durably store it in geological, terrestrial or ocean reservoirs for multiple hundreds or thousands of years. However, achieving a close carbon cycle requires efficient capture followed by CO2 conversion to products or controlled release in a concentrated form for subsequent utilization. Anthropogenic activities have released a total of ∼2400 GtCO2 over the period 1850–2019, causing (to date) a 1.07 °C raise in global surface temperature [14]. The 2021 AR6 Climate Change report assessed a likely 0.45 °C raise in earth temperature with each 1000 GtCO2 of cumulative CO2 emission. Accordingly, remaining carbon budgets (starting from 2020) for limiting global warming to 1.5 °C, 1.7 °C, and 2.0 °C are estimated at 500, 850 and 1350 GtCO2, respectively, based on the 50th percentile of transient climate response to cumulative CO2 emissions (figure 2(a)). Hence, stabilizing or reversing CO2-induced global surface-temperature increase requires achieving global net zero or negative CO2 emissions. However, current commercial-scale CCS projects have a combined potential for capture and storage of only ca.100 million tons of CO2 per year, accounting for just 0.3% of global annual CO2 emissions [15, 16].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 2. The remaining carbon budget and current status of CO2 emission and capture. (a) Relationship between cumulative CO2 emissions and the increase in global surface temperature. Reproduced with permission from [14]. (b) Global CO2 reallocated by end-use sector. Adapted by permission from Springer Nature Customer Service Centre GmbH: Springer Nature, Nature Materials [15], Copyright 2021. (c) The CO2 capture capacity of commercial-scale CCS projects worldwide. The number on columns corresponds to the number of projects. Reproduced from [16] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Electricity and heat generation produced 41% of global CO2 emission in 2017 (figure 2(b)) [15]. Therefore, most of the CCS research is focused on high concentration point-sources (∼4%–15% CO2) from fossil fuel power plants. Industrial processes such as cement manufacturing, iron and steel making and natural gas treatment which produced 24% of global CO2 emission can also be targeted with CCS technologies [17]. Meanwhile, direct air capture (DAC) is also envisioned as a near-term strategy toward negative emissions. Economical and environmental considerations have narrowed down the commercially deployed CCS technologies to post-combustion CO2 capture, i.e. chemical absorption, and solid looping technologies (figure 2(c)). Amine scrubbing and calcium looping are the two most commercially adopted technologies due to their efficient absorption reaction and compatibility with existing power stations [18]. However, the energy-intensive regeneration of diluted amine solvents and high-temperature thermal swing in calcium looping has motivated the search for more efficient CCS technologies using nanomaterials and electrochemistry [15, 19].Current and future challenges in carbon captureDespite the industrial deployment of solid looping and amine scrubbing, significant challenges still remain in regard to total EE, capacity and lifetime of sorbents, and toxicity and environmental hazards of the employed materials. Solid looping method applies temperature and pressure swing adsorption under relatively high temperatures (usually larger than 300 °C) [20, 21]. Metal oxides, hydrotalcites, and zeolites are often used as solid sorbents. Among them, CaO is one of the most promising and well-studied CO2 capture materials because of the wide distribution of limestone in nature. Taking calcium looping method as an example, the carbonation reaction of CaO occurs at around 600 °C, whilst the backwards endothermic CO2 releasing (calcination) reaction proceeds at above 800 °C [18]. Thus, significant thermal energy is required during the absorption/desorption cycle. High temperature also causes additional materials challenges such as sintering and catalyst surface poisoning. It has been shown that the carbonation conversion of CaO significantly decreased from 70% on the first cycle to <10% after 30 cycles due to the formation of surface CaCO3 blocking layer [18]. Therefore, the rate limiting step changes from surface carbonation reaction to CO2 diffusion, dramatically decreasing the CO2 capture capacity and catalyst lifetime.Amine scrubbing is based on reversible absorption and desorption of CO2 through formation of water-soluble salts in contact with aqueous amine solutions through following reversible reactions:
where CO2 can be stored as carbamates via zwitterionic intermediates which will be subsequently be deprotonated and stabilized by base. For primary and secondary amines, both amines and water molecules can serve as the base for deprotonation as shown in reactions equations (1) and (2). However, only bicarbonates will be generated for tertiary amines. Since the amine solutions are thermally regenerated, amine scrubbing is also considered as a temperature swing method. Although much lower temperature is usually required compared with solid looping, the inevitable associated water evaporation decreases the EE. High temperature also results in amine loss due to the evaporation. Besides their corrosive and toxic nature, amines are also involved in parasitic reactions such as polymerization and oxidation to amides, ammonia, or nitrosamines under high temperatures, leading to poor capacity and short lifetime.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesNanoscience and electrochemistry in the past decades have been applied to address the low EE and poor capacity of carbon capture technologies. Surface modification [22], nanosizing of metal oxides via ball-milling and sol–gel [23], and introduction of inert metal oxides [24] or calcium metal oxides [23] to minimize the formation of surface blocking layer have been employed in solid looping technology. The uptake capacity of these calcium-based solid catalysts can reach as high as 0.64 g of CO2 per gram of sorbent after around 20 cycles [23, 25]. However, application of high temperature is inevitable due to the intrinsic thermodynamics of carbonation reactions, so requires energy input and leads to low efficiency.Elimination of the aqueous solvent through fixing amines onto solid substrates has been pursued to address the low EE in amine scrubbing technology. A variety of nano-structured amine-functionalized sorbents including high surface carbon-based materials, inorganic oxides, metal–organic frameworks (MOFs), porous polymeric materials, and zeolites have been reported. In an innovative design, Voskian and Hatton used a quinone polymerized into a solid, demonstrating an electro-swing CO2 absorption with high FE and low EC (40–90 kJ mol−1) [26]. Meanwhile, porous materials have been widely considered as an emerging technology due to their high EE for CO2 capture. The adsorptive mechanism in porous materials is projected to reduce the parasitic energy by 30%–40% compared to the absorption process in amine scrubbing and solid looping. In addition, solid-state adsorbents provide tunability of the capture process by altering the pore size and shape, while avoiding toxic and corrosive sorbents. Various organic and inorganic adsorbents including activated carbons, zeolites, amine-functionalized silicas, porous organic networks, and MOFs have been introduced to achieve high selectivity and capacity with low-energy regeneration kinetics [15]. Solid-state adsorptive approach promises higher EE, wider tunability, improved stability and environmental friendliness, but it requires higher capital cost compared to the industrially adopted technologies.Electrochemical CO2 capture (ECC) as another promising carbon capture technology uses electro-swing instead of pressure or temperature swing for capturing and releasing CO2. ECC methods are mainly appealing for their potential-dependent control of CO2 absorption/desorption through altering the nucleophilicity of intermediate species under ambient conditions. In addition, ECC methods are compatible with electrified industry, demonstrate higher flexibility to address decentralized emissions, and offer lower theoretical energy penalties of capture/release processes [19]. Direct ECC is based on altering the nucleophilicity of a redox-active sorbent, while indirect ECC employs a redox mediator which competes with the redox-inactive sorbent for CO2 binding. Organic redox-active sorbents of quinones, bipyridines, and disulfides, as well as transition metal complexes with macrocyclic amino and pyridine ligands have been explored for direct ECC [27].Indirect capture mediated with Cu2+/Cu0 (competitor) for the electrochemical regeneration of amines is also investigated as an alternative to thermal generation [28]. Substituting the thermal regeneration with an electro-swing in an amine-based absorption capture could halve the EC of the desorption process [19]. Moreover, electrochemically mediated pH-swing through reversible switching from a basic pH capture to an acidic pH release over ca. 2–3 pH units in aqueous hydroxide or carbonate solutions is particularly attractive for application of inexpensive and environmentally benign mediators [19]. However, irreversible gas evolution during pH-swing decreases the EE. Other potential ECC technologies based on proton coupled electron transfer and membrane capacitive deionization exhibit higher energy efficiencies, but more research and development are required to decrease their capital and operational costs and increase the technology readiness level [19].Concluding remarksCO2 capture capacity as the basis for CO2 usage is still under 1% of global emission and requires a significant increase to provide an effective source of CO2 for scale up of utilization approaches toward zero or negative carbon emissions. The industrially adopted amine scrubbing and solid looping exhibit high EC, poor capacity, and short lifetime due to the intrinsic high temperature desorption cycle. The recent development in utilizing advanced nanomaterials and electro-swing offer potential energy-efficient solutions for the diverse emission sources. The dry adsorptive mechanism using porous sorbents provides a tuneable approach for various-sized plants with different gas mixtures. However, the large-scale synthesis, thermal decay mechanisms, disposal/recycling of the sorbents and its environmental impact should be rigorously analyzed. Electrochemically mediated CO2 capture is another emerging technology, promising low theoretical energy penalties, ambient operation, use of less toxic materials, and high adaptability with electrified industries. However, further research is required to improve CO2 absorption rate by enhancing electron and charge transfer kinetics. Moreover, operation under high CD and low-cost membranes should be attained before scaling up. Moreover, recent strategies in combining CO2 capture with electrochemical conversion into chemicals and fuels [29] has a potential to eliminate expensive separation, storage, and transfer steps and increase the overall EE. Developing efficient technologies combining CO2 capture with conversion/utilization methods is required for closing the carbon cycle and moving toward zero emission.AcknowledgmentH Y acknowledges Marie Skłodowska–Curie Fellowship H2020-MSCA-IF-2019 (897014).3. What are the ideal CO2 reduction (CO2R) products for closing the carbon cycle?Claudie Roy, Parisa Karimi and Phil de Luna Energy, Mining, and Environment Research Centre, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, ON K1A 0R6, CanadaStatusWhile electrochemical conversion of CO2 to high-carbon products is favorable, it comes at a significant energy cost and with lower selectivity. As the number of proton-coupled electron transfers increase with higher-carbon molecules, the overall efficiency of energy transformation decreases [30]. Simply put, the larger you go, the more energy you need to get there, and the less efficient you become. Thus, the highest priority should be placed on simple, small building-block molecules that can then be up-converted to a variety of products.The ideal CO2R product is one that can be scaled, is cost competitive with fossil fuel incumbents, and has a sizeable market share such that emissions reductions would be significant when switching from petrochemical production to electrosynthesis. From an emissions reduction capability, renewable electrosynthesis of liquid fuels could comprise 10 700 megatons of CO2 avoided by 2030 [31]. Carbon monoxide and ethanol represent two ideal CO2R products that can be either upgraded to fuel or used directly as a drop-in replacement. Ethylene is also considered a great CO2R product that could be used as a building block in chemical industry; however, electrochemically synthesized ethylene has a higher production cost compared to ethanol [30] and hence it is not included here.Carbon monoxide, when mixed with hydrogen, forms syngas—a precursor of many transportation fuels such as jet fuel, diesel, and gasoline via Fischer–Tropsch upgrading. CO is the most industrially advanced CO2R product with companies developing CO2 electrolyzers at industrially relevant CDs (300 mA cm−2) and >90% FE, and thousands of hours recorded [32]. CO can also be produced from carbonates directly from CO2 capture solutions which simplifies process steps and reduces capex [33]. CO as a gaseous product is also easier to separate than products that are dissolved in electrolyte.Ethanol is a liquid alcohol that can be directly used as a drop-in replacement fuel like ethanol biofuel produced from corn. To date, copper-based catalysts are the only metal type capable of C2+ products. Ethanol electrosynthesis has been demonstrated at industrially relevant CDs in flow cell device, but its FE remains relatively low (50%) [34]. While there is much to be done to improve ethanol electrosynthesis in terms of efficiency, selectivity, and stability, doing so would allow direct conversion to a drop-in fuel and eliminate the need for Fischer–Tropsch.Current and future challengesCarbon monoxide and ethanol production at high efficiency and conversion rate relies on optimized catalyst design, reactor architecture and process conditions. Catalyst design is central to product selectivity as the binding energy between the surface of the catalyst and the reaction intermediates is a determining factor in product formation. The higher the number of proton–electron exchange, and steps, the more tedious the reaction. CO production is a simple two-electron transfer:
CO conversion is possible at high selectivity with gold, for which the smallest overpotential was reported but gold is a scarce and expensive noble metal. Silver is the most used for industrial applications due to its good catalytic activity, high abundance, and affordability. The challenges with CO production remain in further scaling-up the device, i.e. going from cm2 cell size to the m2, loss of CO2 in the electrolyte as carbonate, and increasing the CO concentration gas product which is currently reported to be limited to 30% [32]. Ethanol production is more complex and involves 12-electron transfer:
Also, the energy required on top of the thermodynamic potential to drive the reaction is substantial (around 1 V overpotential). The mechanistic understanding that enables C–C coupling beyond the self-coupling of CO to ethanol production is lacking [35], but it has been suggested that higher uncoordinated sites such as steps, edges, and kinks favor ethanol production over ethylene [36]. On top of the limited 50% FE reported, stability also needs to be addressed as the longest operation reported to date was in the hundreds of hours.For both CO and ethanol production, mass transport limitation of CO2 is a limiting factor in reaching higher FE. In addition to the limited CO2 solubility in aqueous electrolyte, the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) should be avoided. Stability is among the main challenges limiting the economic viability of the technology in both cases. Loss in activity that affects product selectivity is common and can be caused by (a) surface poisoning from electrolytes impurities and/or reaction intermediates, (b) surface restructuring under operating conditions, and/or (c) pore blockage through bubble formation or salt deposition. Figure 3 depicts the current system with the above-mentioned challenges and compares it to the ideal system where only the CO2R reaction (CO2RR) would occur.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 3. Schematics representation of the current (a) and ideal (b) system where the catalysts are represented by CAT. In the current system, the HER (red arrow) is competing with the CO2R (green arrow), and the limiting factors are (i) CO2 dissolution and diffusion in the electrolyte/ionomer (light blue films) (ii) catalyst poisoning at the surface (–R) and (iii) the pore blockages either due to bubble formation or salt deposition (green circles). In the ideal system, CO2R occurs at a high conversion rate on a catalyst with optimal architecture and maximized active sites, and the reaction is stable over time.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Advances in science and technology to meet challengesFor CO2-to-CO conversion, rapid improvement in device architecture is needed to tackle stability issues at larger scales, while for CO2-to-ethanol, further progress on catalyst development for higher activity, selectivity, and stability are still required.The use of gas-fed devices for CO2RR reduces challenges related to mass-transport limitation of CO2, and hinder competing HER as the CO2-to-H2O ratio increases at the catalyst interface. While the use of GDL compared to H-cell setups, allows to reach much higher CDs, problems such as flooding, salt deposition or catalyst poisoning limit the long-term performance [37].To avoid flooding issues, GDLs should be made of materials with stable hydrophobic properties to efficiently repel water, without sacrificing two other important GDL characteristics: electrical conductivity and porosity. Additionally, to avoid other challenges such as salt-deposition or catalyst deactivation (associated to liquid electrolytes), future research should also be dedicated to development of zero-gap devices, ideally with entirely solid-polymer-electrolytes. For this purpose, it is critical to develop anion-exchange-membranes (AEMs) with high chemical and mechanical stability, high ionic conductivity, that also reduce CO2 crossover to the anode side [9].CO2-to-ethanol reduction is a more complex reaction and main challenges rise from the lack of a reliable catalyst. Obtaining a better understanding of the surface composition/structure and gaining a deeper knowledge of the reaction mechanism and events occurring at the surface under real operating conditions are key to development of more reliable catalysts. For this purpose, in-situ spectroscopy/microscopy techniques such as infrared/Raman spectroscopy (to detect reaction intermediate/adsorbed species on the catalyst), and x-ray adsorption/photoelectron spectroscopy (to probe elemental composition, chemical/oxidation state, electronic structure, and coordination number, etc.) are promising techniques. Each of these techniques face very specific challenges [38], but the lack of appropriate cells that closely mimic the actual catalyst working condition and lack of reproducibility in the measurement, are common to both and should be addressed first. In complement, data collected during in-situ measurements should be combined with artificial intelligence/machine-learning models, to help with the design and development of new catalysts.Concluding remarksIn conclusion, we have identified that CO and ethanol are the two most promising CO2R products because they are easily scalable, cost-competitive and have sizeable market shares. Electrochemical CO production is considered one of the most promising candidates because of its technologic and economic feasibility. CO2-to-ethanol is considered one of the other most interesting strategies to convert CO2. Ethanol is a widely used chemical with a high-energy-density that is also commercially attractive. While the challenges related to the production of CO lie in the device architecture affecting long-term stability in larger scales, ethanol production is an early technology where catalyst activity, selectivity and stability are still limiting its development. CO2 to ethanol conversion is particularly the process where the use of in-situ and in-operando techniques coupled with artificial intelligence and machine learning could greatly help to advance catalyst development.AcknowledgmentWe acknowledged the support from the National Research Council of Canada's (NRC-CNRC) Materials for Clean Fuel (MCF) Challenge Program.4. What guidelines must we have for product detection and benchmarking?Buddhinie S Jayathilake and Christopher Hahn Materials Science Division, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA 94550, United States of AmericaStatusBenchmarking provides an unbiased, reproducible, and meaningful performance assessment of novel catalysts in comparison to standards. Generally, there are two purposes to benchmarking catalysts for electrochemical CO2R. The first is to assess and compare intrinsic activity and selectivity, which signifies the true rate and selectivity at which the active sites turnover CO2. The second is to assess the geometric activity of an electrocatalyst integrated within a high surface area electrode that is designed to optimize overall performance. Both are important to technology development as the former quantifies the discovery of new catalysts, while the latter assesses the viability of these catalysts in real systems where the productivity scales with surface area.Benchmarking electrocatalysts for CO2R necessitates a multimodal characterization approach integrating electrochemistry analysis with product detection, as many different CO2R products can be formed, and the HER is a ubiquitous competing pathway (see section 15). Liquid and gas phase products are oftentimes simultaneously evolved, and the field has widely accepted the use of conventional analysis techniques such as gas and liquid chromatography (GC, LC) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to analyze selectivity. Mass spectrometry and Raman and infrared spectroscopy have been used as in situ tools to analyze real time electrocatalyst performance through higher frequency detection of products and intermediates (see sections 8–10) [39].Extensive research using three electrode configurations within H-cells and their equivalents has identified heterogeneous catalysts that are selective and geometrically active for CO2R to CO, formate, and multi-carbon products in aqueous bicarbonate electrolytes. Measuring catalyst surface areas and active site distributions [40] to assess turnover frequencies (TOFs) has been far less abundant, although this is the most objective way in which intrinsic activity can be compared. Our analysis compares TOFs for the most common C1 and C2 products measured from planar Au [41], Sn [42], and Cu [43] electrodes (figure 4(A)). The selected data is not meant to represent the state-of-the-art, but rather to demonstrate how TOF analysis on detailed studies of catalysts can be used to quantitatively assess progress in catalyst development.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 4. Benchmarking TOFs for CO2R heterogeneous electrocatalysts requires careful analysis to extract the intrinsic reaction kinetics from other convoluted processes such as mass transport. (A) Comparison of average TOFs for CO2R to the most common C1 and C2 products as a function of the overpotential applied to planar Au [41], Sn [42], and Cu [43] electrodes. Average TOFs are calculated using the equation TOF = jm−1
n−1
F−1, where j represents the partial CD, m represents the active site density assuming the entire surface is the face-centered cubic (100), (110), or (111) facet, n represents the number of electrons transferred per mol of CO2, and F represents Faraday's constant. The cited studies use IR compensation to correct for ohmic contributions to overpotentials. The shaded regions around the data points qualitatively represent uncertainties propagated from electrochemical testing, product detection, surface area and pH measurements, changes in the measurables over time, and data analysis. As the shading goes from darker (left) to lighter (right), the data deviates significantly from the intrinsic reaction kinetics (e.g. exponential relationship between TOF and overpotential) due to mass transport effects. The study on Cu [43] electrodes had repeat tests to assess statistical relevance; the first standard deviations are shown with error bars, indicating that the variance is relatively small on a logarithmic scale. (B) Activation (red), ohmic (blue), and concentration (green) overpotentials compared to the Nernst potential (purple) for CO2 conversion to a representative product.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesThe benchmarking uncertainties in figure 4(A) emphasize several research challenges for the CO2R field. Notably, even for these detailed studies there are few data points to assess and compare the intrinsic reaction kinetics, which presents issues for a complex multistep reaction such as CO2R as the rate-determining step may change as a function of the electrode potential. Conventional product detection methods such as GC, LC, and NMR have provided common frequencies of data acquisition in the timeframes of minutes and hours due to either limited detection sensitivity or inherent separation times required for product identification and quantification. This is significantly slower than the timescales of reactive events (figure 4(A)), providing limited feedback on transients in the CO2R kinetics. Uncertainties in product analysis are propagated, as these detection methods are coupled with steady state electrochemistry to assess partial activities. Taken together, these factors have led the CO2R field to have less data per report with more uncertainty than related cathode reactions such as hydrogen evolution and oxygen reduction. Analysis of TOFs for polycrystalline metals (figure 4(A)) illustrates how active site distributions lead to additional uncertainty. Characterizing the physicochemical properties and dynamics of active sites is a grand challenge in catalysis that is compounded for CO2R by the need for concomitant product analysis.Another challenge is rationally extracting the intrinsic reaction kinetics from benchmarking, which is important to accurately compare data for catalysts measured in different electrochemical cells [44]. This requires measuring the electrokinetics under reaction conditions that are free of mass transport effects, and/or mathematically deconvoluting the activation overpotential from ohmic and concentration overpotentials (figure 4(B)). While ohmic overpotentials are typically compensated through IR correction, concentration overpotentials are germane to CO2R as CO2 has relatively low solubility in aqueous electrolytes and measurements are typically conducted in neutral pH without strong buffering agents. Rotating disk electrode (RDE) measurements (figure 5(A)), that hydrodynamically control external diffusion within the boundary layer, are uncommon in CO2R as it is challenging to form a gas-tight seal for product analysis [45, 46]. Thus, conventional analytical methods to deconvolute mass transport effects, such as Koutecky–Levich analysis at various rotational rates (ω) (figure 5(B)), are typically not used for CO2R, and researchers are left with difficult decisions hypothesizing which data represents the intrinsic reaction kinetics. These challenges are compounded when benchmarking porous catalysts, as they can have different active site distributions for TOF analysis and form complex internal diffusion gradients during electrolysis that further obfuscate the intrinsic reaction kinetics (see section 6) [47].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 5. Multidisciplinary roadmap for benchmarking heterogeneous catalysts for electrochemical CO2R. The approach includes (A) catalyst innovations, (B) forced convection testing to deconvolute the intrinsic catalysis from mass transport effects, (C) integrating performant catalysts into GDEs for advanced flow cell electrolyzers, (D) innovations in the spatiotemporal analysis of products and intermediates and (E) data processing to minimize systematic and experimental errors associated with benchmarking and product analysis, (F) long term and accelerated stress testing to benchmark the durability of catalysts, and (G) correlations with computational modeling and simulations to develop a multi-scale understanding of kinetically-relevant processes limiting performance.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Advances in science and technology to meet challengesLooking ahead, a concerted multidisciplinary approach is needed to provide breakthroughs in both the accuracy and speed of benchmarking (figure 5). Development and more widespread adoption of product analysis tools with improved detection sensitivity and temporal resolution provide a means to bridge the vast gap in timescales between conventional product measurements and reactive events (see section 10) [39]. Inspiration can be drawn from the development of TAP reactors for transient studies of thermal catalysis [48]. Benchmarking can be accelerated by coupling rapid product analysis with high-throughput electrochemical methods such as scanning droplet cells (SDCs). In situ characterization methods are needed to measure the specific types, quantities, and dynamics of catalyst active sites for analyzing TOFs and establishing accurate theories for CO2R (see sections 5 and 7).Further development and more widespread adoption of gas-tight RDE and liquid flow cells for benchmarking will deconvolute intrinsic reaction rates from mass transport effects [45, 46]. Reporting uncertainties in data, and importantly, propagating the error through all analyses is strongly encouraged. A t-test can be used to determine confidence intervals that aid in establishing a statistically relevant conclusion. Data science tools such as Bayesian analysis can provide unbiased selections of data for extracting the intrinsic reaction kinetics [49]. Although benchmarking flat catalysts is recommended when assessing and comparing intrinsic activity, controllably tuning the catalyst mesostructure provides information about internal diffusion gradients and how the catalyst will perform in real systems [50]. These phenomena can be deterministically controlled by developing advanced manufacturing methods that can realize complex mesostructures predicted by modeling.Recently, greater attention has been focused on catalyst integration into GDEs [51] for scale-up of CO2 electrolyzers (see sections 6 and 18). Decades of research from the fuel cell community has shown that this is not a trivial step. More collaborations are encouraged between researchers that are focused on catalyst development and those on systems prototyping to benchmark catalysts under real operating conditions at earlier stages of research. A useful endeavor would be for the CO2R field to establish, disseminate, and widely adopt a few GDE platforms [52] for routine half-cell benchmarking of new cathode catalysts. As the field matures, more focus is needed on long-term testing and durability. Accelerated stress testing of related technologies, such as fuel cells and water electrolyzers, provides a knowledge base for the CO2R field to develop and adopt new protocols (see section 18) [53].Concluding remarksHere, we discuss the current status and challenges for benchmarking heterogeneous CO2R electrocatalysts and characterizing products and other relevant reaction species. We provide an analysis of catalytic TOFs for different metals and reaction pathways that emphasizes the importance of benchmarking the intrinsic reaction kinetics to quantitatively assess and drive catalyst innovations. Mass transport effects and uncertainties propagated from electrochemistry experiments, product analysis, and surface area and active site characterization are key challenges for improving the accuracy and speed of benchmarking. We provide a multidisciplinary roadmap with some general guidelines to encourage accurate comparisons of catalytic performance and more collaborations, which will aid in focusing catalyst development on key research gaps.AcknowledgmentsThis work was performed under the auspices of the US Department of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344 and IM release number LLNL-JRNL-825464 and was supported by Laboratory Directed Research and Development funding under Project 19-SI-005.5. What does DFT tell us about electrochemical CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Alexander Bagger and Jan Rossmeisl Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2100, DenmarkDFT and atomic modeling does not tell anything unless asked. It is like the ancient Greek oracles, you have to ask the questions specifically and you have to make a careful analysis of the answers to get useful insight.For CO2R the question is what kind of questions we should ask and what kind of insight we can obtain. One of the main questions is how to discover better catalyst materials. A better catalyst is active (energy efficient) and selective (making the desired products). In reality, you want to find a catalyst that makes the most valuable product and optimize the activity for the product. For CO2R, this means that most studies are related to Cu, which has the most interesting product distributions.For simple reactions (one reactant—one product) one can postulate a reaction mechanism from chemical intuition and analyze it deductively to predict trends in catalytic activity between different materials. For the postulated reaction it is possible to find descriptors, usually adsorption energies, which by the use of linear scaling and Brønsted−Evans−Polanyi relations are causally linked to the activity by Sabatier volcanos. The most active catalyst will be the one with an adsorption energy closest to the value corresponding to the top of the volcano. For electrochemistry this means the catalyst with the smallest overpotential.The challenge is how to approach complicated reactions (multiple reactants—multiple products) where one can imagine many different reaction paths resulting in different products. For addressing selectivity, the relative activity of different reaction paths needs to be compared. There are several volcanoes; one for each possible reaction path. This makes the selectivity challenge more complicated than the activity and multi-dimensional. It is therefore challenging even to postulate all the different reaction mechanisms, neatly illustrated by Nitopi et al [54] for CO2R on Cu.However, it is in some cases possible for gas phase catalysis e.g. selective dehydrogenation of light alkanes, to derive selectivity maps with a couple of important variables from extensive microkinetic models, binding energies and barriers [55]. Whereas the electrochemical catalytic reactions involving the electrolyte and potential challenge the deep detailed mechanistic description. In other words, the mechanistic conclusions for complicated electrochemical reaction are typically sensitive to choices of method and interface models [56]. Hence, the challenge is that it might be impossible to a priori postulate reaction paths and analyze the selectivity by deduction of the model.We will argue that we actually need a simpler approach to address complicated electrochemical reactions. The product distribution over metal catalysts from CO2R is depicted in the periodic table of figure 6(a), visualizing such a selectivity challenge [57, 58]. To get robust conclusions for the CO2RR, the analysis we carry out is at the level of energy-selectivity and structure-selectivity correlations rather than on the level of exact causal connections between descriptors and selectivity. So why is it better to look for correlations than causal connections?
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 6. (a) Display of the cropped periodic table with CO2R reaction products. Adapted from [56] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry. (b) The CO2R reaction FE versus the hydrogen binding on the metal catalysts. [58]. John Wiley & Sons. © 2017 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Deriving a multi-dimensional model, looking only at the correlations is empirical and statistical—allowing the most dominant parameters to carry the weight of the model, without the need to be a reaction intermediate. In this sense, it may or may not allow us to speculate about the underlying reaction mechanism, but it will allow us to determine design principles for better catalysts.Figure 6(b) show the CO2RR FE versus the hydrogen binding [56, 58]. A one-dimensional analysis with four groupings based on the primary product of the CO2R; H2, beyond CO*, CO(g) and HCOOH. A sigmoid fit to the FE of the CO2R shows that hydrogen underpotential deposited (HUPD) is an 'on'/'off' descriptor for CO2RR. If there is HUPD ('off' region) the material mostly catalyzes the parasitic hydrogen evolution and not CO2R. In the 'on' region a linear fit illustrate that the CO2 conversion selectivity is correlated with the adsorption energy of hydrogen. This 'most simple analysis' shows that for the selectivity challenge of CO2, a one-dimensional analysis in the hydrogen binding shows that the selectivity descriptors does not need to be linear with the product distribution or overpotential. However, it does not allow us to distinguish the important Cu catalyst from the rest—and a multi-dimensional description is needed.Figure 7 show how to carry out a statistical analysis to gain insights into the CO2 reaction at a series of Cu facets [2, 59]. Figure (a) show a two-dimensional analysis with the CO versus the hydrogen binding energy and (b) is an enlargement of the dashed box, with the C2+ FE given by the colorbar. The CO vs H binding show that Cu is special from the rest of the metals, due to its ability to bind CO while not having HUPD and the zoom of the data present how close energetically the different Cu facets are in terms of CO and hydrogen binding.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 7. (a) The CO* versus the H* binding energies for metals with color code matching figure 6(a) and multiple Cu facets inside the dashed square. (b) The CO* versus the H* binding energies zoom of the dashed square in (a). (c) Principal component analysis of the product formation. (d) Principal component analysis of the coordination number. (e) Principal component analysis of several binding energies. Reprinted with permission from [59]. Copyright (2019) American Chemical Society.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Focusing on the selectivity at the Cu catalyst; (c)–(e) depict principal component analysis of the products, coordination number and selected binding energies, respectively. Figure (c) shows that 78% of the variation in products can be explained by only two product variables, hinting a simple correlation model of two parameters should be able to capture the majority of product variation. Elegantly, it allows the products to group by their original vectors, giving insights into which reaction paths could be similar. Figure (d) correlate how important the local structure is for the catalyzed product. Figure (e) express that simulating multiple binding energy descriptors, can be reduced to a two-dimensional analysis carrying 70% of the variation in binding energies.Given by the statistical correlations, there is no need for rigorous screening of different bindings or reaction paths at Cu facets to explain products, when two selected binding energies carry the difference. One example would be to choose the intuitively CO vs H binding energies, that are almost orthogonal in figure 7(e). The analysis does not give us the reaction path; however, it most importantly gives us design principles for better catalysts.Current and future challengesThe big research issue with the selectivity challenge of CO2R is to understand the reaction and building robust models based on energy-selectivity and structure-selectivity correlations as a framework. There is an urgent need for a whole series of well-defined experiments to allow statistical understanding of the reaction, such as a data-driven high-throughput experimentation approach combining with model frameworks. High-throughput experimentation can be achieved through e.g. combinatorial co-sputtering from multiple elemental targets in combination with SDC measurements [60].Concluding remarksActivity and volcano constructions is highly challenging for complex reaction as CO2RR, and we suggest a different approach. For complex reactions, energy-selectivity and structure-selectivity correlations allow for robust analysis frameworks that can describe the selectivity challenge in a multidimensional space of descriptors/parameters. To improve the understanding, advanced models beyond correlation is needed. For this to succeed, there is an urgent need to improve the statistical experimentation, to allowing advanced models to describe the selectivity phenomenon of these reactions without discussing deterministic models.AcknowledgmentsA B and J R acknowledge the Danish National Research Foundation Centers of Excellence, The Center for High Entropy Alloys Catalysis (Project DNRF149).6. Modeling transport effects in CO2 electrolysisEtienne Boutin and Sophia Haussener Laboratory of Renewable Energy Science and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne 1015, SwitzerlandStatusActivity and selectivity of CO2R is sensitive to local conditions at the electrode/electrolyte interface (i.e. concentrations of reactant, product, electrolyte, and catalysts or local potential). Due to the necessary presence of protons to equilibrate most CO2RRs, the concomitant HER (2H+ + 2e− ⇌ H2) constitutes a permanent threat to selectivity. This effect is even more important for catalysts that are able to reduce CO2 into various products (e.g. copper) as only one product is desired per process in order to reduce expenses in downstream separation. CD and selectivity, along with charge transport and fluid dynamics will determine these local conditions that often deviate from bulk concentration or potential measured at the current collectors. While experiments provide typically one applied potential and CD per product as a function of one bulk concentration of reactant and electrolyte, models can predict locally resolved values. Previous work has already investigated such relations, starting from ideal cases (flat electrode/electrolyte interface, constant diffusion layer thickness) [61, 62] or quasi-ideal cases (controlled electrode rugosity) [63, 64]. These studies have correlated high local pH with favoring C–C coupling on copper or suppressing HER on silver, but also with the suppression of CO2RR CD (as CO2 interfacial concentration almost completely depleted via the homogeneous reaction with hydroxide anions, CO2 + OH− ⇌ HCO3
−) [62].Such detailed computational models allow to define guidelines for optimal pH conditions and electrode design (pore size, electrode thickness, etc). In these cases, CO2 reacts as a dissolved species at an electrode/electrolyte interface. Because of the low solubility of CO2 in water, the CO2RR CD is limited to tens of mA cm−2. As industrialization perspectives are starting to drive the activities, GDEs have been introduced to significantly increase the CDs. The generalization of this technology, along with the fact that gas bubbles are evolving even in the simplest designs, is requesting more complex and complete models. For example, the model need to be extended as mass transport at such CD is also impacted by the device geometry and the nature of the separator material. Modeling of such complex processes have only recently started [65]. At the other extremum of the scale, there is an emerging interest in understanding mass transport phenomenon of charged species due to migration in the nanometric vicinity of the electrode, where the electrical potential drops sharply due to double layer (DL) charging effect. On this narrow region, electrolyte cations accumulation have been shown to affects diffusion of species, while accumulation of hydronium cation is producing important pH deviation from the usual reaction-diffusion model [66, 67]. This interrelation of various mass transport modeling scales is depicted in figure 8.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 8. Illustration of the multi-scale transport phenomena inside the cathode compartment during a CO2R into CO experiment in a microfluidic cell configuration with KHCO3 electrolyte. (SE) solid electrolyte, (E) electrolyte, (GDL) gas diffusion layer, (CL) catalytic layer. Green circles represent the solvated form of potassium cation.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesOne challenge in multi-scale modeling is to accurately implement kinetics, mainly the intensity of the partial CDs as a function of potential, reactant and product concentration, electrolyte, etc. The experimental determination of such parameters requires full control over the local concentration of species, i.e. experimental conditions where the mass transport phenomena are understood. To deconvolute kinetic and mass transport effects, conditions of known fluid dynamics behavior at flat electrode surfaces are preferred. This is the case for flat rotating electrodes that, despite their simplicity, are still posing a challenge for CO2RR due to the evolution of gas bubbles [68, 69].Modeling at the molecular scale such as by density functional theory (DFT) is expected to provide complementary information toward complete kinetics model. Although, the entanglement of mass transport phenomena at many different scales makes the definition of the relevant scale a pending question. DFT studies are usually made for a few molecules (Å scale). But migration induced accumulation of ions in the DL (nm scale) is impacting DFT results [70]. This migration, coupled with diffusion and steric interaction of charged species near the surface induce a deviation from usual diffusion layer models (∼10–200 µm scale). But the intensity of this DL charging effect will be influenced by the mass transport of electrolyte ions in the electrode porous layer (µm scale) and by the size of the pore (as screening effects could happen for nanometric pores). Consequently, phenomena at specific scales cannot by independently modeled and it remains a significant challenge to establish a model that considers all scales simultaneously.The modeling of the reaction is also complicated by the concomitant contribution of various interfacial configurations: while CO2R is mostly considered in a solvated environment at an electrode/electrolyte interface, improvements enabled by GDE technology are often explained by the development of a triple phase interface in which gaseous CO2 is reduced at a gas/electrode/electrolyte interface. In reality, the reaction likely occurs at both, double and triple phase interfaces, as well as at double phase interface in the nanometric vicinity of gaseous/electrolyte interface in which electrolyte behavior might deviate from bulk conditions [71]. Comprehension of such mechanism and modeling the dynamic of gas movement through the porous structure is an ongoing challenge with important implication for the CO2R field of research.As the field is getting more commercialization-oriented, new constrains have arisen that are mass transport related. Long terms operation, with reports now exceeding weeks, are disclosing the problem of electrolyte precipitation at the GDE due to an imbalance between water supply (usually the gas stream is humidified CO2), water electrochemical consumption and water removal in the gas stream. Selectivity that has long been focused on the products (favoring one among others) also now requires to consider the reactant (what fraction of the CO2 is being converted) for efficiency considerations (see section 19 from Seger). Optimization of such metrics is associated with fluid management in the device, a device-scale modeling challenge. Improvement of this device CO2 conversion rate decreases the CO2 partial pressure along the path and all related parameters (CO2 solubility, bicarbonate equilibrium, equilibrium potential, etc) drift away from the 1 atm pressure assumption [72]. At such high CDs, other typical assumptions may not be valid anymore. This is the case for the acid-base reaction that might drift from equilibrium or solvent activity that could decrease below unity [71, 72].The understanding of the exact gas–liquid interface and detailed liquid distribution in the GDEs will be necessary to understand the proper transport or identify under which conditions liquid breakthrough can happen with a potentially detrimental effect on performance. Advanced multi-phase models, for example, based on volume of fluids methods have to be developed.Experimental condition at high CD and long operation time cannot be modeled without considering other, inter-related transport phenomena (see figure 9). Electron transport in the device could be limiting the process at high CD. Additionally, local resistance to electron transport constitutes a source of heat. Temperature gradients in the device will have important implication on performances as all physical, chemical, and electrochemical reactions involved are temperature dependent.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 9. Illustration of the involved multi-physical phenomena and their inter-dependence. (C) Concentration, (T) temperature, (Jelectrode/electrolyte) current at electrode or in electrolyte, (Ji
,interface) partial interface current of species i, (Φ) electrical potential, (r) reaction rates.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Advances in science and technology to meet challengesNew parameters needs to be implemented in a standardized CO2 electrochemical model. These parameters include supersaturation and nucleation of bubbles; gas bubbles motion into porous GDE; deconvolution of triple phase, double phase, and double near triple phase interfaces contributions; concentrated species model for strong electrolyte; etc. New models also have to be developed for more specific application such as mass transport in solid electrolytes or BPMs (see section 20 from Boettcher). Due to the convolution of many parameters in the model, it is important to separately validate each assumption. Therefore, experiments conducted under controlled fluid dynamics conditions should be correlated with relevant models to connect local activity/selectivity to local parameters. For the case of bubble transport modeling validation inside the GDE, operando tomography could be used.The complete integration of the various scales (figure 8) into a coupled multi-scale model will require the development of relevant interfaces between ab-initio DFT models, molecular dynamics models, meso-scale pore-level models, and continuum-scale device models. While this will cover the spatial variability, similar methods will be required for the temporal resolution that span from fs for fastest electron transfer and chemical steps, ms to s for the transport processes, and significantly longer timescales to capture degradation phenomena.Other transport related physics will have to be implemented in the model, including electron transport in the conductive part of the device or heat transport (induced by ohmic phenomena or others). Extraction of effective ohmic resistance or heat conductivity of the porous media can be facilitated by the emergence of nano-tomography performed on such substrates [73]. Due to temperature gradient within the device, the determination of temperature dependence of all physics involved represent an important step to accomplish. Eventually the evolution of the steady-state regime over time has to be resolved, requiring the extraction of kinetics parameters relevant for deactivation processes from specially developed experiments. This transient modeling will shed light on the role of mass transport limitation in catalytic deactivation. Such effects are suggested by recent studies where the system lifetime was increased by pulsed potential electrochemistry, buffering mass transport limitation effects [74].Concluding remarksTransport modeling of CO2R is a promising method that has the potential to rationalize the relationship between the various physics involved in an electrochemical device. Advanced multi-scale and multi-physics modeling is the only way to deconvolute their respective contributions in devices. This applies even more so for devices that are operated under more and more intense conditions. Once predictive models and digital twins are established, screening of all parameters can be performed within time scale and costs unattainable by experiments. Consequently, transport modeling could ultimately guide researchers in the optimization of their device designs, and provide a way for full transport control in a CO2RR device. Furthermore, such models allow for a finer understanding of the interrelation between experimental conditions and performance, potentially allowing to revisit previous studies that were relating homogeneously distributed CD to bulk concentrations of species in the absence of accurate estimation of current partition and local concentrations.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work performed with the financial support of a Starting Grant of the Swiss National Science Foundation, as part of the SCOUTS project (Grant #155876), the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under Grant Agreement No. 85144 (SELECT-CO2) and No. 862453 (FlowPhotoChem).7. Mechanistic insight into the electrocatalytic reduction of CO2 via operando spectroscopy and microscopy methodsSee Wee Chee and Beatriz Roldan Cuenya Department of Interface Science, Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Faradayweg 4-6, 14195 Berlin, GermanyStatusIn this contribution, we will assess whether the electrocatalyst's morphology under reaction conditions is the same as in its pre-catalyst state, or if drastic structural and chemical changes are likely to occur. This aspect has been beautifully exemplified in the literature related to Cu materials, the premier catalyst for the electrochemical CO2R to C2+ hydrocarbons and alcohols. In particular, the selectivity of Cu-based materials is known to be strongly affected by different environmental factors which determine the evolution of their surface structure and composition such as the electrolyte and the applied potential [7, 75]. Furthermore, these changes are expected to be more severe at the high CDs in industrial CO2 flow electrolyzer applications [10]. To date, our fundamental understanding of a catalyst morphology is still largely rooted in descriptors derived from surface science thermal catalysis studies, with the operating temperatures influencing surface atomic diffusion and the most stable morphology. Such descriptions are unlikely to hold for electrocatalysts that operate in an electrolyte, under applied potential and mostly at ambient temperature, which can lead to thermodynamically unfavorable motifs. These dynamical motifs are, however, non-trivial to investigate because of the challenges associated with characterizing samples in a 'vacuum-incompatible' liquid environment. Moreover, the critical features can be lost once the catalysts are removed from the reaction conditions.To enable direct studies during reaction, significant efforts have been invested in recent years to develop electrochemical cells that can circumvent the limitations of conventional surface science methods [76]. Some analytical techniques where such setups have been implemented for electrocatalysis studies are summarized in figure 10. Operando spectroscopy is the more established approach, where a broad probe beam is used to interrogate the samples and their averaged properties are measured. For example, Raman spectroscopy can track the surface binding of reaction intermediates during CO2RR [77], whereas x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) allows us to probe the catalyst structure, composition and oxidation state [78]. The use of operando microscopy to track nanoscale structural [79] and surface [80] changes that occur under CO2RR reaction conditions using specialized electrochemical reaction cells is, comparatively, in its infancy. Examples of operando work describing the behavior of cubic Cu2O catalysts during CO2RR are provided in figure 11. Ideally, the experiments will also be coupled with online monitoring of the reaction products for structure-property correlation, although examples of such implementations are still very scarce.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 10. Common analytical techniques used for operando spectroscopy and microscopy investigations of CO2RR electrocatalysts and their respective features.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 11. Examples of operando investigations of CO2RR electrocatalysts. (a) Operando Raman spectra of Cu2O nanocubes acquired during CO2RR in 0.1 M KHCO3 showing the restricted rotation of adsorbed CO (P1) and Cu–CO stretching (P2) from −0.4 to −1.2 VRHE. (b) Potential-dependent intensity ratio of P2 to P1 peaks and C2+ products FE. (c) Electrochemical transmission electron microscopy image sequence showing the time-resolved evolution of Cu2O nanocubes supported on Pt in CO2-saturated 0.1 M KHCO3 0.1 M KHCO3 at −0.7 V versus a pseudo-Pt reference. Reproduced from [77]. CC BY 4.0. Reproduced from [79]. CC BY 4.0.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
For more details on the use of in-situ spectroscopy to probe the structure of the electrochemical DL, we refer readers to section 8; conversely, section 9 elaborates on the use of in-situ spectroscopy to probe adsorbed intermediates.Current and future challengesThere are several challenges associated with performing operando spectroscopy and microscopy studies to probe the dynamic behavior of electrocatalysts. First, high temporal resolution is needed in electrochemical CO2RR to resolve the rapid changes in morphology and oxidation state observed in Cu during fast or pulsed potential sweeps. Furthermore, in a system with significant gas evolution, the formation of bubbles on the working electrode can also lead to unstable local electrolyte conditions on the timescale of the measurements. Within the different techniques described in figure 10, there is already considerable spread in their temporal resolution, ranging from ms resolution in advanced quick x-ray absorption setups, subsecond resolution in surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy and surface x-ray diffraction and a few seconds in electron microscopy. A number of scanning probe approaches [81] allow monitoring electrochemical reactions locally, but their temporal resolution is still insufficient to track fast intermediate reaction steps taking place during CO2RR. In many cases, the changes in the catalyst morphology are already probed at higher time resolution compared to the accumulation times (typically tens of minutes) required for the analysis of the reaction products from CO2RR using, for example, GC, making the impact of these changes on the catalyst functionality difficult to decouple. The generally slow response of the product measurements, especially for low yield products, is another significant bottleneck for advancing the mechanistic understanding that can be derived from operando studies of CO2RR electrocatalysts.In addition, the cell geometry or materials need to be optimized for each technique and these compromises often mean that the experimental conditions applied in different experiments do not exactly match, making the generalization of the results sometimes complicated. Each technique also has its limitations with most operando spectroscopy techniques being ensemble-averaging and, hence, only sensitive to the majority species in the sample. The role of minority and spectator species is difficult to decouple from such studies. Operando microscopy studies, on the other hand, suffer from limited statistics due to the narrow view associated with the high spatial resolution imaging. It should be also noted that most operando techniques employ energetic probes (high energy electrons, x-rays, lasers), which can alter the state of the catalysts being studied. Beam damage effects are especially critical in synchrotron-based spectroscopic/diffraction studies and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy where radiolysis can lead to the formation of reductive/oxidative species or alter the local pH of the sample environment. While such issues are generally mitigated with low radiation dose methods and comparative control experiments, one cannot keep reducing the dose without running into signal-to-noise ratio issues or sacrificing temporal resolution with longer acquisitions.As operando methods become more common and the instrumentation improves, data management becomes a looming problem. In this aspect, there are already emerging challenges in both the processing and interpretation of large operando datasets, and in the compilation of data streams from different instruments. In this respect, machine learning approaches would become increasingly important in the analysis and interpretation of operando microscopy and spectroscopy data [78].Advances in science and technology to meet challengesWe envision that future technical advances in operando characterization will mostly be associated with improving the spatial and temporal resolution of these methods, including enabling online product analysis of the electrolyte stream. The latter is essential to correlate the catalyst selectivity with its corresponding structure. There is also a considerable gap between the nanoscale morphological data that can be obtained from electron and scanning probe microscopy methods with the microscale probe sizes of the different operando spectroscopy techniques. Here, improving the spatial resolution of scanning methods such as scanning x-ray microscopy and confocal Raman spectroscopy will allow us to bridge the results obtained using different methods. Future developments in the operando characterization of electrocatalysts will also involve the use of multiple techniques simultaneously, or, when the requirements of the different methods do not allow it, to employ transferrable reactor cells that are compatible with the different experimental setups.Tracking electrochemical transformations and detecting elusive transient species and reaction intermediates that might be intermittently present on the catalyst surface or in its vicinity will require improving the temporal resolution of the different techniques through more sensitive detectors. The improvement required in this case is not limited to the tracking of structural changes. Compositional maps obtained, for instance, using energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy within an electron microscope can provide extremely valuable information about a catalyst's elements and their distribution. The time resolution of such investigations must be, however, drastically improved to follow the rapid transformations of electrocatalyst under potential control. Other improvements will involve incorporating more capabilities into the reactor cells, such as including local pH measurement close to the working electrode, where pH effects remain one of the more challenging issues to rationalize in CO2RR [54].Lastly, the interpretation of operando spectroscopy data can be enhanced by better theoretical support, such as using calculations to understand the features in the Raman or infrared spectra and how they relate to different reaction intermediates and modeling of near-edge or extended x-ray absorption data [77]. Here, machine learning approaches are expected to significantly aid these efforts [82].Concluding remarksWe envision that the knowledge that will be extracted from operando spectroscopy and microscopy studies will aid the rational design of a new generation of active but even more importantly, highly selective and durable CO2RR catalysts. Clearly, it is not sufficient to only enable better data collection; the data must be processed and weaved together into a consistent picture. We expect future efforts to focus on combining multiple operando techniques to mitigate the weaknesses of a single method, i.e. where electron microscopy provides the morphological details needed for interpreting spectra from ensemble-averaging techniques such as Raman or x-ray absorption spectroscopy. How to merge such data meaningfully, especially for complex reactions like CO2RR, with multiple possible underlying processes or a multi-element material remains a largely unsolved problem, specially when each technique uses a different electrochemical cell configuration. This is especially critical if, for example, confinement and mass transport limitation effects in such cells lead to artifacts in the data and result in findings that are not representative of the processes in benchtop or industrial electrochemical experiments. Finally, we see significant promise in the use of data science, thanks to recent breakthroughs in machine learning methods, for providing an effective solution for analyzing and combining several complementary large operando spectroscopy/microscopy datasets.AcknowledgmentsWe appreciate funding by the European Research Council (ERC-725915, OPERANDOCAT) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation)—Project No. 406944504—SPP 2080.8. Understanding the interplay between electrolytes and electrode-mediated reactions via in-situ spectroscopiesBingjun Xu and Xiaoxia Chang College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, People's Republic of ChinaStatusElectrode surface, ions in the electrolyte and solvent form the immediate environment (figure 12) in which electrocatalytic reactions occur, i.e. the electric DL (EDL). In this crowded interfacial space, there are intricate interplays among all species present through a multitude of modes of interactions, e.g. covalent, ionic and van de Waals [83]. Thus, any interfacial species has the potential to substantially alter the energetics and activation barriers of reactions taking place on the electrode surface [84]. Upon applying a potential, ions in the electrolyte of the opposite charge to the excess charges on the electrode are attracted to as close as the outer Helmholtz plane (OHP). With sufficient concentrations of the electrolyte, the majority of the potential change is only felt within the EDL, where an intense interfacial electric field (>108 V m−1) is present [85]. This interfacial field is proposed to impact the stability of reactants and intermediates within the EDL to varying degrees depending on their molecular structures and adsorption configurations [86]. Since the OHP is defined as the closest plane non-specifically adsorbed ions can approach the electrode surface, the distance between the OHP and the electrode is sensitive to the structure and properties of the ions. In the absence of specific adsorption, the size of ions (together with their solvation layers) balancing the excess charges on the electrode determines the thickness of the EDL, and in turn the interfacial field strength at a given potential. This could be regarded as the electrostatic component of the electrolyte effect. Specific adsorption of ions, especially anions, could be considered as one type of (electro)chemical interaction between the electrolyte and the electrode, which could result in site blockage. Although effects of other chemical interactions on the reactivity have been reported [87], their nature and mechanism remain elusive.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 12. Schematic of the EDL. OHP, IHP and EDL are short for outer and inner Helmholtz planes, and electric double layer, respectively. Black, gray, green and blue circles represent cations, anions, specific adsorbed species and solvent molecules, respectively.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesThe key conceptual challenge to understand the impact of the electrolyte is the difficulty in isolating individual variables as species in the EDL interact with one another through several mechanisms, e.g. change in the size of alkali metal cations also affects their hydration shells [87]. Thus, understanding the electrolyte effect is like reverse-engineering a black box with complex circuitry using a number of inputs and outputs. In this crude analogy, the greater the number of inputs/outputs and the closer to the core circuitry, the easier the task becomes. Reactivities and kinetics constitute an important group of inputs and outputs, with many experimentally accessible variables such as concentrations (partial pressures), potential, rates and selectivities [88]. They form the boundary conditions to which any reverse-engineered black boxes should compile, however, they are several steps away from the reaction sites. In-situ characterizations, especially interfacial specific spectroscopies, provide more informative inputs/outputs. For example, x-ray absorption and Raman spectroscopies could probe the impact of the electrolyte on the oxidation state, composition and structure of the electrode. Electrochemical scanning tunneling and atomic force microscopies (STM and AFM) afford nanometer scale resolutions, which could provide direct evidence for specific adsorption of species from the electrolyte [89]. Importantly, vibrational spectroscopies are able to determine the interfacial field strength based on the vibrational Stark effect with a proper probe molecule such as CO [90]. Unfortunately, few works in the literature have taken full advantage of these techniques at our disposal to obtain complementary information on well-defined systems and construct frameworks of understanding regarding the electrolyte effect, for following reasons: (a) different sample requirements or preparation procedures make it hard to combine multiple techniques to investigate the same system, e.g. spatially resolved techniques such as STM and AFM require relatively flat surfaces while reactivity tests are more accurate on supported particulated catalysts. (b) Complementarity of different interfacial characterization techniques remains underexplored. It is well known that infrared and Raman spectroscopies provide complementary information as molecular spectroscopies, however, the complementarity of surface enhanced infrared and Raman techniques remains largely unknown, leading to uncertainty in combining these techniques [91]. (c) Over-reliance on simplistic computational models. While the accuracy of calculations has been continuously improved with computation power and method, computational results are as reliable as the model representing the physical system under study. The disconnect between idealized models typically employed in computations and the complexity in real electrochemical interfaces introduces uncertainties in the mechanistic interpretations.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesAdvances in the understanding of how species in the EDL impact electrocatalysis demand better correlations of variables intrinsic to the EDL with kinetic rates of catalytic materials. Kinetic rates, i.e. free of the mass transport effect, are far less commonly reported in electrocatalytic literatures than in thermocatalysis [88]. This makes quantitative correlations between the EDL properties and catalytic performance untenable, though qualitative trends can still be identified. More rigorous rate measurements, as well as reactor and electrode designs that minimize mass transport limitation, are needed in electrocatalytic research. Surface enhanced vibrational spectroscopies are informative tools to investigate the EDL due to their interfacial specificity. However, the understanding of the selective enhancement of, as well as the effect of the interfacial environment on, vibrational modes with these spectroscopies remains incomplete, leading to ambiguous spectral interpretations. For example, few organic species involved in the electrocatalysis exhibit the vibrational Stark effect, which could be interpreted as either these species are not in the EDL or their vibrational modes are insensitive to the interfacial field strength [92]. These aspects need to be clarified to gain reliable knowledge of the composition and structure of the EDL. Beyond the level of individual techniques, the development of spectroscopic configurations and cells that enable simultaneous operation of multiple techniques is needed. This would not only offer a more complete picture of the EDL, but also help elucidate the complementarity of different techniques. Enhanced spatial and temporal resolutions of characterization tools would be a prerequisite in reaching molecular level understanding of the dynamic nature of the EDL during electrocatalysis. Further, the causal effect between the EDL structure and the catalytic performance can only be reached by close integration of experimental and computational investigations. This is because the multiple variables that are hopelessly intertwined in physical systems could be neatly deconvoluted in computational models and independently varied. The accuracy of the computational modeling is rested upon two factors, i.e. the quality of the computational method and the model employed. In this regard, qualitative and quantitative comparison between simulated and experimental spectroscopic results could serve as an accessible measure of the representativeness of the computational model, and in turn an effective approach to hone the reliability of combined experimental and computational research.Concluding remarksThe interplay between the electrolyte and surface-mediated electrochemical reactions takes place in the EDL, which is a crowded space with numerous interacting species. In-situ spectroscopic techniques play key roles in deconvoluting the impact of individual species or variables in the EDL on catalytic performance. Integrating multiple existing spectroscopies to allow for simultaneous operations and developing techniques with enhanced spatial/temporal resolution are expected to foster breakthroughs in fundamental understanding. In addition, spectroscopic results could also serve as the anchoring point enabling reliable interactive experimental and computational investigations.AcknowledgmentB X and X C acknowledge the support of Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences.9. What can in situ spectroscopy tell us about adsorbed intermediates?Woong Hee Lee1,2, Hyung-Suk Oh2,3 and Yun Jeong Hwang1,4
1 Department of Chemistry, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea
2 Clean Energy Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul 02792, Republic of Korea
3 KHU-KIST Department of Conversing Science and Technology, Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea
4 Center for Nanoparticle Research, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Seoul 08826, Republic of KoreaStatusIn electrochemical CO2RRs, investigation of adsorbed intermediates is critical to control reactions for products such as CO, HCOOH, CH4, and C2H4, because of competitive pathways [93]. In-situ/operando spectroscopy provides experimental understanding of the intermediates, in addition to theoretical study. To clarify the transiently present intermediates, surface sensitive techniques, such as surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS), and attenuated total reflection surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR-SEIRAS) have been applied. SERS significantly enhances the signals on the specific metal surfaces, such as Ag, Au, and Cu, and low Raman scattering of water allows the in-situ measurement in an aqueous electrolyte. ATR amplifies the infrared (IR) vibrational signal by utilizing internal total reflection and is applied to various CO2RR catalysts on the prism [94].
In situ spectroscopy studies enrich mechanism and active site information depending on the catalyst conditions such as material, potential or environment. Ag, Au or metal–N–C catalyst demonstrates COO−* and CO* as the key intermediates of each electron reduction step for CO2RR to CO production. The first electron transfer followed by protonation proposes the COO−* intermediate [95], and ATR-SEIRAS on Ag surface obtained both COO−* and COOH* intermediates at high overpotentials (i.e. −1.6 V vs Ag/AgCl), while a proton–electron coupled intermediate (COOH*) was observed at a moderate overpotential (figure 13(a)) [96]. The surface-enhanced IR measurement strategies allow crucial *CO signal observation on Ag in addition to CO2, HCO3
−, CO3
2−, and water related peaks [97]. SERS band shifts of *CO inform changes in the adsorption sites from the bridge to the atop-bound on a Ag surface, influenced by an additional molecule [98]. ATR-SEIRAS also revealed linearly bonded CO (weak adsorbed) exhibited a higher proportion than bridge bonded CO (strong adsorbed) from Pd–Au when Au or defect was incorporated, indicating favorable kinetics for facile CO desorption (figure 13(b)) [99]. In-situ IR study combined with DFT simulation proposed the Fe−N4 moiety with the defective graphitic layer as the active site of a Fe–N–C catalyst instead of the Fe center in the complete graphite due to their balanced *COOH and *CO binding strength [100]. In addition, insightful mechanism governing formate production supports the role of oxide states on p-block metals. The operando ATR-IR results firstly showed carbonate intermediates via Sn oxyhydroxide [101], and SERS support A1g Raman shift of SnO2 [102].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 13. (a) Schematic depiction of the proposed reaction mechanism of CO2R to CO on a thin film Ag catalyst. Reprinted with permission from [96]. Copyright (2017) American Chemical Society. (b) Normalized total CO bands intensity (COL, COB, and COT) and COL to COB band intensity. [99]. John Wiley & Sons. © 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim. (c) Operando SERS of rough Cu surface in CO2-saturated in 0.1 M NaHCO3 (pH 6.8). Reproduced with permission from [104]. (d) Schematic illustration of *OCCO and *CHO intermediates on Cu for production C2H4 and CH4, respectively. Reproduced from [106] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry. (e) Scheme of in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy measurements during the gas fed CO2RR. Reprinted with permission from [108]. Copyright (2020) American Chemical Society. (f) Schematic of the EC-TERS operando nanoscopy approach. Reproduced from [109]. CC BY 4.0.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Furthermore, Cu is more focused for observing intermediates toward hydrocarbons due to its suitable *CO binding [103]. In addition to *CO, the operando SERS on Cu showed multiple adsorbates associated with *CO3
2− and *CO2
− and proposed a carboxylate intermediate (
2(C,O)–CO2) initiate CO2RR to formate (figure 13(c)) [104]. ART-SEIRAS proposes the key intermediate, *CO on the Cu surface [105], is further reduced to hydrogenation (*CHO) and C–C coupling (*OCCO(H)) intermediates for CH4 and C2H4 production, respectively [106]. Meanwhile, Cu(OH)2 derived catalyst exhibited a rapid decrease of *CO and an increase of *OCCO(H), indicating favorable CO consumption for CO–CO coupling contributes to the selective C2H4 production over wide potential ranges (figure 13(d)). In addition, positive Cu oxidation states were suggested to stabilize ethoxy intermediates (*OCH2CH3) and contribute enhanced C2H6 selectivity on the halide-derived active copper catalyst [107]. Through these recent progresses on probing the intermediates, design of catalysts are rapidly evolving.Current and future challengesMain challenges remain in detecting additional intermediates for the oxygenated products and operating under realistic CO2RR conditions. Multi-carbon intermediates, whose signals are weak and indistinguishable from electrolytes, are more difficult to observe than the *CO intermediates. While most of the Cu catalysts produce ethylene and ethanol simultaneously, the point at which these reaction pathways diverge remains unknown. Probing the intermediates for diverse products including ethanol, acetate, and C3+ products is highly desired to develop controllable catalysts and find new catalytic reactions. Intermediates for oxygenate or C3+ product are undetectable at this stage due to low selectivity of the catalysts. Observing the multi-carbon intermediates can, therefore, provide critical insights into new coupling reactions.Next, for in-situ spectroscopy, the electrochemical cell is specially designed to allow light paths, and thus the intermediates are observed under controlled conditions. Environmental variables such as cell dimensions, CO2 flow rate and electrolyte agitation can strongly influence on the mass transport and consequential product distribution of CO2RR. Direct CO2 gas-fed electrolyzers have been recently applied to achieve high current densities (CDs) of hundreds mA cm−2 for practical applications, and the reaction environments are significantly different from most of the in-situ spectroscopic cell where CO2 is dissolved in the electrolyte. A spectroscopic electrochemical cell supplied with CO2 gas must be developed to observe the real intermediates. Gewirth's group demonstrated operando SERS using a GDE flow cell under 1 M KOH with CO2 gas-fed (figure 13(e)) [108]. The observed spectra of Cu-polyamine showed a strong peak of Cu–CO binding, promoting C–C coupling [110]. Since the flow cell has a catholyte, the next challenge is to observe the intermediates in a catholyte-free membrane-electrode-assembly electrolyzer, advantageous for stackable large scale application.Increasing the measurement resolution is still challenging but important to reveal unknown transient information of the intermediates especially for time-resolved and space-resolved spectroscopy. Kim et al highlighted time-resolved observation of CO2RR intermediates in elucidating the origin of selectivity [106]. They observed that *CO on high-frequency binding sites of Cu with grain boundaries declines rapidly with increasing *OCCO(H), implying defective site-bound *CO contributes to fast *CO dimerization. Slow formation of *CHO regardless of *OCCO(H) formation suggests kinetically independent intermediates. Further kinetic information can be observable with enhanced time resolution to s or ns. Meanwhile, heterogeneous catalysts possess various surface sites including plane, step, and other defects, but the intermediate bindings have been estimated from the ensemble catalysts. Thus, future efforts should focus on the space-resolved spectroscopy by adapting nanoscale mapping technology to identify the site-specific intermediates. For example, tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy can provide the mapping of active sites with a spatial precision of 10 nm during electrochemical reactions (figure 13(f)) [109].Advances in science and technology to meet challengesIR and Raman vibrational spectroscopies are complimentary and particularly useful for probing the bonding nature of the adsorbates. Both techniques have been advanced for the in-situ electrochemical spectroscopy studies with the assistance of the electrochemical cell design and catalyst development. Although ATR-SEIRAS and SERS techniques have been developed rapidly in recent years, the sensitivity of detecting reaction intermediates in real CO2RR operations still needs to be improved due to weak signal of intermediates and interferences from the reactants, products and the electrolyte. To enhance resolution for Raman spectroscopy and diversify the applicable CO2RR catalysts beyond Au, Ag, and Cu, design of the catalyst substrate should be developed. The specialized electrode substrates should be further developed to prove limited signal of the intermediates. Technical development should focus on decoupling the intermediate signal from the aqueous electrolyte signal. To monitor intermediates with further clarity, detection capability of the instruments should be advanced by upgrading sensitivity of detector, power and laser source, and a new prism design. Synchrotron-based Fourier transform-IR spectroscopy can be a considerable approach due to large brightness and broadband spectrum, but thermal stresses induced by strong radiation should be counted. Synchrotron IR source significantly enhance spectral as well as spatio-temporal resolution. Faster time-resolved spectroscopic scans provide information about the life-time, kinetics and temporal behavior of the intermediates. The enhanced spatial resolution of vibrational spectroscopy conjugated with advanced mapping technology may reveal not only intermediates but also reaction pathways and activity specific to the active site type. These difficulties, therefore, raise the needs for a more advanced electrochemical cell and electrode substrate that support the detection of intermediates. Furthermore, to accommodate recent CO2RR technology, a specialized electrochemical cell design that has been optimized for gas-phase CO2RR is required, while maintaining resolution for the vibrational spectroscopy. The ATR prisms configuration that enable CO2 gas supply in the electrochemical cell would be great challenge. Instead, external reflection-absorption infrared spectroscopy could be applied, in which the beam passes through a thin electrolyte layer before being reflected from the electrode surface.Concluding remarksIt is no doubt that observing the adsorbed intermediates by in-situ/operando vibrational spectroscopy is the key to understanding the CO2RR mechanism and designing effective catalysts in addition to DFT calculation. Combining the in-situ/operando spectroscopy with a custom-designed electrochemical cell can be a powerful tool to unveil key intermediates species, active sites, and reaction pathways for a wide variety of catalysts similar to the real CO2RR condition. Especially, CO2RR competes with multiple electron transfer pathways, some of which are shared for other products, and HER is a considerable side reaction. We have to consider that the intermediate should be measured as close to the actual reaction environment as possible because CO2RR performance is sensitively influenced by both of intrinsic and extrinsic properties. The intermediates (i.e. *COOH, *CO, *CHO, *OCCOH, etc) detected during CO2RR are complementary evidence to give feedback to the DFT simulations, thereby accomplishing more reliable mechanisms. A fundamental understanding of CO2RR will guide the development of advanced catalysts for high efficiency and the discovery of new chemical reactions with a variety of valuable products.AcknowledgmentsThe authors acknowledge the support by the Institute for Basic Science (IBS-R006-D1) and the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT (No. 2020M3H4A1A02084590). This work was supported by Creative-Pioneering Researchers Program and the New Faculty Startup Fund from Seoul National University.10. What can electrochemical mass spectrometry (EMS) tell us about reaction pathways in CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Zarko P Jovanov2, Jorge V Ferreira de Araujo2 and Peter Strasser1
1 Department of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering Division, Technical University Berlin, Strasse des 17. Juni 124, 10623 Berlin, Germany
2 LIQUIDLOOP GmbH, Hardenbergstr. 38, AM1, Technical University Berlin, 10623 BerlinStatusPower-to-X technologies that efficiently convert renewable electricity, water, and carbon dioxide captured from air into sustainable chemicals and fuels such as CO, ethylene or ethanol remain one of the grand challenges of our times. Obtaining an accurate picture about the complex CO2 electroreduction reaction (CO2RR) mechanism is paramount for the successful design of active, abundant and stable electrocatalysts, as well as suitable electrolyte-systems for producing preferably a single value-added chemical.Generally, EMS offers the possibility to record the kinetics of parallel and serial elementary electrochemical reactions at an electrode-electrolyte interface. EMS can detect multiple chemical molecules with a high sensitivity, chemical selectivity at electrode-to-detector time-resolution in the (sub)second range. This has enabled scientists to the follow interfacial electrochemical reactions, including the quantitative tracking of reactants, intermediates and products.To experimentally track the kinetics of electrocatalytic reactions occurring at solid–liquid interfaces using EMS, a number of science and engineering challenges need to be met. These primarily refer to the design of the interface between the electrified solid catalyst-liquid electrolyte region, where electrochemical reactions occur and reactants/products are consumed/accumulated, and the evacuated reduced-pressure region, where the mass-spectrometric detection of species occurs. Additional challenges concern new design solutions for well-controlled fluid dynamics to ensure low MS ion current backgrounds and reproducible sample transfer from the electrified interface into the MS ionization region.The earliest EMS interface solution, focused on studying reactions such as hydrogen or oxygen evolution, was a non-porous, relatively thick membrane inlet for detection of gas products [111, 112]. This approach suffered from rather slow response times, which made an alignment between the EMS ion currents and the applied corresponding electrochemical potentials difficult. Subsequent improvements involved the use of porous membranes and differential pumping stages [113] that enabled the use of stagnant thin layer, later flow-through (dual) thin layer cells with faster response times, differential detection mode, and near-total product collection efficiency. Limitations of these cell designs included relatively low operating CDs and temporal misalignments in compound detection due to varying diffusivities. Improved EMS cell design solutions were needed yet again, when the focus shifted to the mechanistically complex electrochemical CO2RR to liquid, less volatile products, and to operation at high (>100 mA cm−2) CDs, generating a wide array of chemically distinct reaction products.Progress in electrochemical mass spectrometry (EMS)In an effort to address the above-mentioned shortcomings for the complex CO2RR, novel EMS designs emerged. Pioneering CO2RR studies combined an on-line electrochemical MS (OLEMS) with a RDE [114] to improve mass-transfer to and from the catalyst layer, or included a membrane covered pin-hole to sample in µm proximity of electrode surface [115], thus minimizing the distance and time for analytes to diffuse. OLEMS setups were used to systematically study the mechanism of the CO2RR on copper electrodes by separately following the reduction of likely intermediates along distinct pathways [4]. Although this method lacked in MS-signal sensitivity and accuracy of detected kinetic onset potentials, the experimental data confirmed the existence of specific reaction pathways delivering plausible hypothesis about carbon–carbon coupling mechanism [4]. Still, the on-line EMS analysis proved insufficient to fully resolve the mechanistic details about gas and liquid volatile products. Real-time EMS detection of accurate product onset potentials was needed. The value of EMS-derived trends in kinetic product onset potentials during voltammetric potential scans consists in their possible link to the corresponding position of products along the reaction coordinate, and, as such, computationally derived limiting (onset) potentials where the formation of product proceeds nearly barrierless. Accurate onset potentials require fast EMS response times and precise time alignment for gas and liquid compounds.Advances to meet these challenges for gaseous CO2RR products have been put forward in form of novel electrolyte-vacuum interface based on microfluidic membrane chip design with a working electrolyte volume in the microliter-range. Major advantages include a 100% collection efficiency, high sensitivity and quantitative data analysis for highly volatile products [116]. Yet, liquid-phase products with lower volatility and diffusivity, such as alcohols or aldehydes, take significantly longer to reach the detector, compromising real-time analyses and accurate onset potentials. Combined with limitations in the maximum operating currents, the extraction of mechanistic information on liquid intermediates and products remained difficult. In another innovative EMS approach, selective reagent ionization was combined with time-of-flight mass spectrometry. This EMS technique obtained impressive real-time and quantitative data, providing access to selectivity and the formation rates for a wide array of relevant CO2RR products on copper electrodes [117]. Similarly, a modified dual thin layer electrolyte cell scheme with transfer capillaries achieved the qualitative detection of liquid products such as ethanol and propanol [118]. Ethylene, methane as well as the alcoholic liquid products reported, however, exhibited very similar onset electrode potentials, which appeared at variance with current mechanistic models.Meeting the 'liquids challenge' in electrochemical mass spectrometry (EMS)A recently proposed EMS capillary flow cell design (figure 14) combines continuous convective electrolyte flow toward the electrified interface with fast capillary sampling flow toward the liquid–vacuum interface. A thin electrolyte layer at the electrified interface is replaced by a large bulk electrolyte volume to enable high currents and hence improved product sensitivities. While the capillary sampling lowers the collection efficiency, it is not affected by gas bubble formation. Also, the capillary flow extraction approach ensured high-speed plug-flow conditions, ultra-low response times combined with more precise alignment for all volatile products.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 14. Schematic differential EMS (DEMS) cell setup with capillary sample extraction.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
The capillary electrochemical flow cell design in figure 14 [119] allows for independent control of relevant design parameters, necessary for reliable temporal recording of product formation kinetics. Unlike in thin-layer electrolyte designs, inside this flow cell, the CO2-saturated electrolyte streams over the electrode surface at moderate 10 s of µl s−1. The sampling capillary, located at controlled distances from the electrode surface, injects an optimal sampling volume to a spatially separated porous interface, delivering products in plug-flow for analysis at an adjustable collection efficiency. This design delivers excellent temporal alignment and resolution of gas and liquid volatile products. Stable MS baselines and high faradaic currents guarantee high signal-to-noise ratios.Practical usefulness of the capillary MS cell design was recently shown in a mechanistic CO2RR study that focused on the dominant mechanistic pathways of mixed CO2 and CO feeds toward ethylene [119]. The capillary DEMS setup employed complex mixed reactant gas mixtures, partial pressures, as well as isotope-labeled 13CO/12CO2 co-feeds. The DEMS experiments yielded new important mechanistic insight into the reactive cross-coupling of CO2 and CO on the Cu catalyst. Accurate experimental onset potentials could be extracted (figure 15) [119]. The capillary cell design is compatible with a variety of catalyst and electrode shapes and formats, tolerates wide applied potential or currents ranges, elevated pressures and wide variety of analytes.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 15. Quantitative deconvolution of the relative contributions of competing CO–CO dimerization reaction pathways to ethylene during CO2 electroreduction on pure and mixed gas feeds using an operando DEMS capillary flow cell system. Comparison of DEMS ion current sweeps over time for ethylene-related molecular fragment (M–H+), fragments in 12CO2/12CO co-feeds (light purple curve) and the corresponding 12CO2 feed (light-orange curve). The bottom plot shows the concurrent cyclic voltammetric sweep over time. The deconvoluted DEMS ion current sweeps over time for the three possible M–H+ ethylene fragments resulting from isotope-labeled 12CO2/13CO co-feeds are shown by the blue, green and red sweep profiles. The blue curve (13C12CH3
+) represents the mechanistic pathway involving dimerization of one 13CO-derived and one 12CO2-derived *CO (cross coupling), shown in scheme M1. The green curve (12C12CH3
+) represents the mechanistic pathway involving dimerization of two 12CO2-derived *CO, shown in scheme M2. The red curve (13C13CH3
+) represents the mechanistic pathway involving dimerization of two 13CO-derived *CO, shown in scheme M3. The values of the onset potentials of the three distinct mechanisms (E1
E2
E3) referenced to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) are listed for each mechanism. Reprinted by permission from Springer Nature Customer Service Centre GmbH: Springer Nature, Nature Nanotechnology [119], Copyright (2019).Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Concluding remarksEMS has become an invaluable mechanistic tool to interrogate the reactivity of volatile species in complex multi-electron transfer reactions, such as the CO2RR. No EMS design to date was able to satisfy all requirements to full satisfaction. Although the real-time analysis has progressed significantly over past years, there is plenty of room for improvements for sensitive, fast and quantitative product detection. A deeper understanding and possible reengineering of how to control the fluid dynamics of the entire system appears necessary to obtain a balance between robustness by minimal system complexity, yet maximum application versatility.Recently emerging EMS designs offer new and sometimes complementary features to elucidate subtle chemical reaction pathways in CO2RR. Fundamental mechanistic insights call for maximum product onset potential resolution capabilities, while practical process evaluation of FEs places more emphasis on quantitative capabilities. Key challenges for future EMS schemes include the combined monitoring of experimental product selectivity (FEs), absolute product formation rates and accurate onset potentials. In collaboration with theoreticians we need to gain a better understanding of the conceptual link of experimental onset potentials to microkinetic parameters, thereby enhancing their mutual predictive and diagnostic power in terms of chemical reaction mechanisms and new catalysts.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to the present results has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under Grant No. 101006701 (ECOFUEL) and Grant No. 851441 (SELECTCO2).11. What is the potential of metal doped carbon for CO2R?Ana Sofia Varela Institute of Chemistry, UNAM, Mexico City, MexicoStatusCarbon-based materials doped with transition metals have emerged as efficient and low-cost catalysts for the CO2 electrochemical reduction (CO2R) given their ability of selectively reducing CO2 into CO, with CO partial CDs up to hundreds of mA cm–2. In these materials, the metal centers are incorporated into a carbon support via coordination with a heteroatom, commonly N, to form a class of materials that we will refer to as MNCs. The metal centers in MNCs form active sites similar to those on metal macrocycles which are known to be efficient catalysts for the CO2R [120].An important advantage of these materials is that they can be prepared using simple methods and inexpensive precursors, which can be easily scaled up. Most commonly, the synthesis involves heat treatment of mixtures of inorganic salts, high surface area carbon and one or more N-containing precursors. During the heat treatment, a variety of functionalities are incorporated into the carbon structure, resulting in multiple sites that can be involved in the catalytic process (figure 16(a)).
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 16. (a) Scheme of the different N functionalities of MNC materials. (b) Effect of metal center on the selectivity of MNCs during CO2 electrolysis carried out at constant potential in 0.1 M KHCO3. Reproduced from [121]. CC BY 4.0.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Both experimental and theoretical studies have shown that the nature of the metal center is key in determining the performance of metal doped carbons (figure 16(b)), as it controls the binding energy towards different intermediates [121]. Ni has been shown to be one of the most interesting metal centers, reducing CO2 into CO with FEs close to 100%. The overpotential however, is considerably larger than that of state-of-the-art Ag catalysts. By contrast, FeNC materials reduce CO2 into CO at lower overpotentials with CO FEs up to 80%, in addition CH4 has been reported as a minor product of the CO2R on FeNC [121]. Another commonly studied metal is cobalt, since Co complexes have reported excellent performance in the reduction of CO2 into CO. Nevertheless, while some CoNC catalysts form CO with high selectivity, others produce H2 as a main product, suggesting that the reactivity of a given metal center is also influenced by its chemical environment.Current and future challengesMost of the studies on metal doped carbon have focused on CO production, which is a product of interest, given its use as a precursor for several synthetic processes. Nevertheless, the highly desired direct reduction of CO2 into more reduced compounds or multi-carbon products is limited on MNCs materials. While the high binding energy between CO and the iron centers of FeNC allows the reduction of CO into CH4, the selectivity remains extremely low [122]. Methane has also been reported as a product of the CO2R on ZnNC catalyst [123], while other ZnNC materials form CO as the main product. More interesting products, such as ethanol and acetone, have been reported on CuNC materials [124]. The product distribution, however, varies greatly between different works which could be attributed to the heterogeneity of MNCs materials which tend to have different distribution of possible active sites. In addition, remaining metallic particles can participate in the catalytic process, and therefore it is crucial that the material is free from metal or oxide nanoparticles to ensure the observed catalytic performance is due to isolated metal centers.While it is clear that the metal plays an important role in the catalytic performance of MNC materials, the exact structure of the active site is still under debate. In fact, different MNX
and free nitrogen sites are involved in the catalytic process. Despite the contribution of the nitrogen functionalities to the activity, for analogous materials, the catalytic current is dramatically enhanced by the presence of a metal center, suggesting a major contribution of the metal during the CO2R [122]. The coordination environment of the metal center and its oxidation state, however, is also affecting the catalytic performance of MNC materials. For instance in the case of NiNC materials, NiN4 sites were initially proposed as the active site [125]. Later, a combined experimental and theoretical study suggested that the presence of vacancies enhances the binding energy towards the *COOH facilitating CO formation, suggesting that undercoordinated sites will result in a higher activity towards CO2R (figure 17) [126]. While these results highlight the importance of the coordination number in controlling the catalytic performance of MNC materials, it is challenging to establish the predominant active site. Furthermore, the optimal metal configuration is likely to be specific for each metal.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 17. Effect of the coordination environment. (a) Different NiNX
structures: NiN4, NiN3, NiN3V and NiN2V2. (b) DFT calculated free energy diagram for the CO2RR at 0 V (c) DFT calculated free energy diagram for the HER at 0 V (the white, gray, red, blue, and purple balls represent H, C, O, N, and Ni atoms, respectively). Reproduced from [126] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Advances in science and technology to meet challengesStudies using both DFT calculations and spectroscopy techniques are needed to bring more insight into the nature of the active sites and to understand how their structure affects product distribution. Once the optimal catalytic sites are identified a key challenge will be the development of new and affordable synthetic methods to incorporate as many of the desired active sites into the carbon structure as possible.For industrial applications, these materials will have to be selective and stable under high CDs, which can easily be obtained on gas diffusion electrolyzers (GDEs). Studies using NiNC catalysts in GDEs have yielded promising results, reaching CO selectivities higher than 80% at 200 mA cm−2 [127]. While the selectivity decreased slightly during CO2 electrolysis, the cell voltage of 4.65 V was stable during the 20 h test. Despite the good performance observed on this NiNC catalyst, there are still improvements needed. On one hand, the product distribution needs to be stable for longer periods and therefore operando studies to understand the reason for deactivation will be crucial. In addition, it would be desired to lower the cell voltage and thus it is necessary to develop catalysts with high activities at low overpotentials.Further improvement on the catalytic performance of carbon-based materials doped with transition metals could be achieved by incorporating different active sites. For instance, the use of other heteroatoms (P, F, S and B) should be explored in more detail. The coordination of the metal center to other heteroatoms can be used to modify the electronic properties of the active site and tune its catalytic activity [128].More interestingly will be the use of a catalyst containing more than one metal to enhance catalytic activity. One approach is to have different active sites to create a tandem catalyst, on which the first reaction steps take place on one site and the reaction is completed on another. For instance, the metal center on MNCs reduces CO2 to CO which is later reduced on copper nanoparticles into hydrocarbons [129]. Alternatively, both metals can be forming dual active sites on which the reaction's energy barriers are lowered reducing the reaction's overpotentials [130]. In addition, such dual sites present an opportunity to design catalysts to favor the formation of C2 products.Concluding remarksCarbon-based materials doped with transition metals are cost effective catalysts with encouraging activity towards CO2R. Nevertheless, more fundamental insight on the different parameters that influence the catalytic performance is still needed. Furthermore, in most cases CO2 is only reduced into CO and the formation of other valuable products is limited. Therefore, DFT calculations and spectroscopy techniques will be useful tools to get the fundamental knowledge needed to develop novel catalysts with improved activity, selectivity and stability. Determining the optimal active site to ensure a high concentration of such sites on the carbon support would be beneficial to the catalytic performance of MNC materials. In addition, the use of catalysts with other heteroatoms and containing dual sites are strategies to be considered to improve catalytic activity of these carbon-based materials and to developed catalysts capable of reducing CO2 into other valuable products such as ethylene.AcknowledgmentA S V acknowledge the support given by the Mexican council of Science and Technology (SEP-CONACyT) through the Project No. 282552.12. What is the potential for molecular catalysts for CO2R?Etienne Boutin1, Julien Bonin2 and Marc Robert2,3
1 Laboratory of Renewable Energy Science and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne 1015, Switzerland
2 Laboratoire d'Electrochimie Moléculaire, Université Paris Cité, CNRS, F-75006 Paris, France
3 Institut Universitaire de France, F-75005 Paris, FranceStatusMolecular catalysts have the decisive advantage to display well define active sites configuration. Given their unique standard redox potential and spectroscopic signature, they offer the possibility to perform thorough mechanistic studies, through combining analytical electrochemistry, in situ and operando spectroscopies [131]. Likewise, such characteristics restrict the CO2RR and its competing HER reaction to a few possible pathways, hence leading to highly selective processes, provided the former ousts the latter. An additional asset of molecular species over solid-state catalysts lies in the infinite possibilities for precisely tuning the active site through synthesis design. Rooted in mechanistic investigation, molecular catalyst structure can be tuned so as to decrease the overpotential and to increase the intrinsic activity for CO2RR at the expense of the competing HER. Such rational optimization has been achieved within the family of tetraphenyl iron porphyrins (figure 18). First investigated in the 70s [132], these catalysts can be electro-reduced in an organic solvent to the formally Fe(0) state, a powerful nucleophilic species that binds and activate CO2 through the formation of a Fe–CO2 adduct. Introduction of electron withdrawing groups on the ligand core enabled to reduce the overpotential for generating the active Fe(0), but at the expense of a less active (nucleophilic) catalyst toward CO2. The rate determining step has been found to be the formation of the Fe–CO2 adduct in typical experimental conditions. Its stabilization can be facilitated with hydrogen bonding and/or electrostatic effects with positively charged substituents (through space effects). Such effects were combined to inductive electronic (through structure) effect in the same catalyst and led to an overall optimized activity (faster rate and reduced overpotential, as illustrated on figure 18) [131]. Interestingly, when the deactivation of the catalyst occurs upon reduction of the ligand, addition of donating groups can extend its lifetime (stability). The high selectivity for CO2-to-CO conversion was transposed in water and molecular catalysts have been inserted into flow cells, matching the activity of nanomaterials [133].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 18. Iron porphyrin catalysts developed over 40 years for CO2 electrochemical reduction in organic solvent. Starting from unsubstituted tetraphenyl porphyrin, mechanistically rooted design of substituted ligands led to favor the formation of the Fe0 active state and thus lower the overpotential, while simultaneously boosting the catalysis rate (TOFmax, maximum turnover frequency).Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
The field is currently evolving toward reduction of CO2 beyond two electrons. Selective processes have yet to be identified (as is the case for solid-state catalysts), but the combination of mechanistic studies together with relevant catalytic site design can open new perspectives.Current and future challengesOne challenge is to selectively reduce CO2 to the full range of C1 products with 4, 6 and 8 electrons (leading to formaldehyde, methanol and methane, respectively) and optimize the corresponding catalysts. To do so, in-depth understanding of the mechanism underpinning the few preliminary examples reported so far is necessary [134]. A second challenge is to catalyze C–C bond formation. In that case too, rare preliminary reports need first to be mechanistically re-investigated. All these processes require many electron and proton transfer steps, with several intermediate species on the route, it is thus questionable whether molecular catalysts would still convey a high selectivity. A way to tackle this issue relies on developing a cascade strategy with optimized catalyst for each 2e−/2H+ step process (e.g. from CO to HCHO, from HCHO to methanol, etc). The formation of C–C bond (figure 19) may also be catalyzed at a specific molecular catalyst site, as it is the case, e.g. for electrocarboxylation. The latter illustrates that a mixture of several substrates may be necessary while a single one may be sufficient for producing symmetrical molecules (CO2R to oxalate or CO reduction to ethylene for example). An issue and a challenge towards upscaling systems including molecular catalysts at an industrial scale is related to their fragility, as compared to solid-state catalysts, and their synthetic cost. In this regard, attachment of molecular catalysts onto a solid support is a way to decrease the loading to low level and to maintain very high activity, providing the catalysts are properly dispersed [135]. Interestingly, such systems show extended durability. In order to maintain controlled selectivity, implementation of molecular catalysts into periodic structures such as MOF or covalent organic framework is certainly as a promising route (in electro- and photoelectrochemical contexts) [136]. Finally, the support may not be limited to a supporting role and could act as a co-catalyst. It points towards a challenging perspective where complex structures including molecular catalysts would combine complementary roles (light harvesting, CO2 capture, proton channeling, substrate activation, etc), in line with historical developments that systematically took inspiration from nature (notably enzymes) for their ability to optimize complex functions.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 19. Illustrative examples of possible pathways for C–C bond formation. Cat: molecular catalyst, L: ligand, M: metal atom catalytic site. Adapted from [134], Copyright (2021), with permission from Elsevier.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Advances in science and technology to meet challengesTo make progress in the understanding of catalytic mechanisms, including those going beyond 2e− processes and/or including C–C bond formation (figure 19), advances in the field of DFT could provide insights on the key intermediates and competing pathways. From an experimental point of view, the development of operando (x-ray absorption, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, electron microscopy) and (ultrafast) spectroscopy techniques and their coupling should also enable the identification of key intermediates such as transient species or specific molecular configurations preceding the reduction of a CO adduct or the formation of a C–C bond for example. Such techniques may allow investigating, at an atomic scale, interactions between the molecular catalysts and the support to reveal possible synergy (dispersion, steric hindrance, conjugation effect, local hydride formation, etc). Upon adsorption, molecular orbitals of a catalyst may partially or fully merge with the band structure of the support (e.g. with graphene-like materials) [137]. Ultimately, the formerly established distinction between molecular and solid-state nature vanishes. Even if scarce, the few already reported examples of CO reduction and of C–C bond formation at a molecular catalytic site represent the most natural front door towards a better understanding. It includes the dimerization of CO2 radical anion to oxalate [138] and formation of more complex molecules (glyoxylate and hydroxy acetate) in the case of a Ru based catalyst (figure 19(b)) [139]. In parallel, a reassessment of previous molecular catalysts might be necessary with the objective to reduce CO, a substrate with a completely different reactivity than CO2 and which may be activated by catalysts inactive toward CO2 [134]. Going further, exploration of molecular catalyst with CO substrate should be completed with studies including mixture of substrates (CO2/CO, CO/HCHO, etc) as it is likely that C–C bond formation may involve carbon atoms with different oxidation state. Another approach is to develop hetero-multimetallic complexes able to act in synergy or in parallel to reduce CO2 or a partially reduced substrate (e.g. CO). Ultimately, advances in the field of molecular CO2 capture could have significant impact on molecular CO2R as multi-molecular entities able to electroreduce dilute CO2 gas stream would be reachable, as already demonstrated in photochemical conditions [140]. Inventing an integrated (photo)electrochemical system combining CO2 DAC and selective catalysis to a highly reduced product would illustrate achieving such challenges.Concluding remarksMolecular electrocatalysts have been developed with remarkable creativity over decades, leading to highly efficient conversion of CO2 into two electron reduction products. Their ability to drive 2e−/2H+ catalytic processes with exquisite selectivity is a firm basis to develop cascade reactions in which CO2 will be transformed into more reduced products, including C1 and multi-carbon products. Towards this goal, the ability to pursue historical strategy with detailed mechanistic studies upon combining theoretical tools, analytical electrochemical methods and high resolution spectroscopic techniques is a decisive asset of molecular based catalytic systems. Such approach finally bridges molecular and heterogeneous catalysis. It also opens a door toward multi-component, complex hybrid systems (electrodes, photoelectrodes, cells) that would integrate and synchronize all the functions to drive the CO2 capture and reduction with ultimate selectivity and rate.AcknowledgmentsM R acknowledges the French National Agency for Research (ANR-16-CE05-0010-01) and the Institut Universitaire de France (IUF) for partial financial support.13. How does the nitrogenase enzyme enable C–C coupling?Oliver Einsle Institute for Biochemistry, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg im Breisgau, GermanyStatusNitrogenases constitute the only known class of enzymes able to reduce the stable triple bond of the N2 molecule to render the element nitrogen accessible for assimilation into biological macromolecules [141]. At ambient conditions and driven by adenosine triphosphate (ATP) hydrolysis, nitrogenases have long been studied to unravel their basic mechanism, but also as inspiration for novel catalysts for the reduction of inert substrates [142]. The most common class of nitrogenases utilizes an iron–sulfur cluster at its active site that additionally contains molybdenum at its apical position [143]. Under conditions of limited availability of Mo, many organisms resort to an alternative nitrogenase that replaces the heterometal with vanadium (figure 20) [144], or to a third ortholog that is based solely on iron [145]. While these alternative enzymes are less efficient in reducing N2, they catalyze distinct reactions that are not mediated by Mo nitrogenase. V nitrogenase reduces CO [146], a non-competitive inhibitor for all substrates other than protons (which lead to H2 formation), while the solely iron-dependent nitrogenase reduces CO2 [147]. Interestingly, the main product of the latter reaction is methane, CH4, but in the reduction of CO by V-nitrogenase more than 93% of the product are not the fully reduced compound, but rather ethylene (C2H4), with small amounts of ethane (C2H6) [148]. Whereas the finding that an enzyme evolved to reduce N2 can also metabolize the isoelectronic but slightly less stable CO is less of a surprise, the formation of a C–C bond during this reaction is quite remarkable. From a technical perspective, all nitrogenases catalyze a Haber–Bosch-like reaction at ambient conditions, and V-nitrogenase has additionally mastered the Fischer–Tropsch reaction, while Fe-nitrogenase engages in Sabatier chemistry. It remains under debate whether these alternative reductions have a physiological significance, but the value of studying their mechanisms for understanding nitrogenase catalysis is broadly recognized today.Current and future challengesAs the most strongly reducing enzyme known to date, nitrogenase must generate a reducing potential that falls quite clearly outside the classical water window, implying that water must be excluded from the active site where the reducing species is formed. Extensive kinetic studies in the 1980s have revealed that nitrogenase itself must accumulate four electrons sequentially before N2 can be bound and activated [149]. These electrons cannot be stored in the already highly reduced active site cofactor but form a pair of bridging hydrides at its surface [150]. The electron donor for nitrogenase only transfers a single electron to the cluster at a time, but the presence of two surface hydrides now allows for the reductive elimination (re) of H2, leaving the enzyme in a highly reactive, two-electron-reduced state [151, 152]. Other than in Haber–Bosch chemistry, H2 thus is a by-product, not a substrate of the nitrogenase reaction. The accumulation of electrons, on the other hand, cannot be facilitated by elevated temperature and pressure, so that this step represents the major challenge for the enzyme. The reduction of CO is less demanding than that of N2. V-nitrogenase does not readily react with the gas, but a reduction by only one or two electrons is sufficient for activation and a re of H2 is not required. Mössbauer, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR)/ electron-nuclear double resonance, Fourier-transformed infrared (FTIR), XAS [153] and x-ray diffraction studies have shown how one (low-CO) [154, 155] or two (high-CO) molecules of CO bind specifically to the nitrogenase cofactors [156, 157], occupying a µ-bridging (low-CO) position that is complemented with a vicinal terminal position (high-CO) at high pCO (figure 20). In the activation of small molecules, the first reduction step that reduces the substrates bond order is the most difficult. Consecutive reduction steps are more facile, and it constitutes a major challenge to populate the various intermediates of these reactions for subsequent analysis. Cryo-annealing has been applied successfully for spectroscopic studies [158], while crystallography has benefitted from the strong inhibitory effect of CO that renders adducts quite stable in the absence of a reductant.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 20. High-resolution crystal structures of the active site FeV cofactor of V nitrogenase. The resting state (E0, left) of the enzyme requires reduction by two electrons to form a surface hydride that is released by protonation concomitant with CO binding to yield a low-CO state (center) where a µ-bridging CO at Fe2 and Fe6 replaces sulfide S2B reversibly. Further pressurization of low-CO leads to a high-CO state (right), where a second CO molecule binds terminally to Fe6.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
In light of downstream applications the study of CO binding to Mo and V nitrogenase has provided multiple interesting leads, but has also highlighted that such complex enzymes are fully integrated systems that gain their catalytic abilities only through the combination of a dedicated, sequential electron transfer and activation machinery and a specialized protein environment that precisely positions and synchronizes electron and proton transfer from different directions to the active site cofactor.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesRecent years have seen tremendous advances and new experimental and theoretical studies of nitrogenases have outlined a catalytic mechanism that accounts for many of the intriguing findings from decades of research [159]. Key to its function is the accumulation of reducing equivalents, driven by ATP hydrolysis, on an already highly reduced cofactor. The transfer of two electrons gives rise to the formation of a terminal hydride if a single proton is added, and over time this hydride will relax into a more stable, bridging conformation at two Fe sites, or be lost as unproductive H2 if another protonation occurs first [160]. We have realized that the alternative substrate CO shares many features with hydrides: both are strong-field ligands with similar bond distances and can attain bridging or terminal binding modes at a multinuclear site. Based on the high-CO state structure of V nitrogenase, we have proposed that iron Fe6 is the site that accepts a first electron (state E1) and subsequently forms a terminal hydride upon further reduction [160]. This H− displaces a bridging sulfide (S2B) and migrates into a bridging position at Fe2 and Fe6 to reach state E2 (figure 21) [156]. Repeating this process would lead to E4, while the unwanted protonation of the hydride in E2 leads back to E0, releasing H2. For CO we find the same binding modes: in the high-CO structure, a bridging µ-CO is bound stably to Fe2 and Fe6, while a labile t-CO is a terminal ligand to the now pentacoordinate Fe6 [156, 157]. Electronically, both the low- and high-CO adducts represent an E0 state and are inhibited, unreactive forms of the enzyme.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 21. Proposed mechanism of CO reduction and C–C bond formation by V nitrogenase. Two reduction steps bring the enzyme to the E2 state with a bound hydride, to which a terminal CO can bind. Insertion of CO into the hydride initiates the path of CO reduction, which involves a four-electorn reduction to a methane adduct. Here, a second terminal CO can bind and insert into the methyl, forming a C–C bond. The second set of four reduction steps is symmetric to the first, leading to bound ethyl. Here, the β-carbon can eliminate a hydride to release ethylene and leave the enzyme in the E2 state.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
To reduce CO, V nitrogenase must utilize the reducing power of the E2 state and avoid the loss of its electrons as H2. This is possible if the t-CO, rather than replacing it, can insert into the bound H–, leading to a direct two-electron reduction of the substrate and the generation of a formyl adduct (figure 21) [159]. At this point, the triple bond of CO is broken, and the subsequent steps follow swiftly: in two further cycles of hydride accumulation and insertion, the substrate is reduced to a bound methyl group, but the final protonation and release of methane are not favored under the high pCO required to drive the reaction. Instead, another t-CO will bind at Fe6, and instead of inserting into a bound hydride, it now inserts into the methyl, forming a C–C bond to yield an acetyl adduct. The enzyme then re-iterates its elementary cycle of reduction, hydride formation and hydrogenation to reduce the C2 product via the aldehyde to an ethyl group. Once more the dissociation of ethane is not favored, and in principle the binding of a further t-CO can lead back to the formation of a C3 product or even longer hydrocarbon chains that have indeed been observed experimentally. Alternatively, ethylene or longer-chain adducts offer a way out: a bound C2 product can undergo a β-hydride elimination, replacing the bound product with a hydride and releasing an unsaturated species, ethylene (figure 21).Several mechanistic proposals for nitrogenases have emerged over time, but the novel aspect of current models is that the dissociation of sulfide S2B opens a dinuclear iron site that is strongly reduced and enables a µ-bridging binding of hydrides and ligands. Synthetic inorganic chemistry has yet to embrace this concept and meet the challenge of establishing a rigid framework with largely invariant Fe–Fe distances. However, the finding that only a single edge of the cofactor (figure 20) is active in the interaction with substrates provides the perspective that efficient homogeneous or even heterogeneous catalysts can be designed to incorporate these features, combined with an electrode for electron supply.Concluding remarksThe reduction of CO is only a side reaction of an enzyme that provides reactive nitrogen from atmospheric N2 for the entire biosphere. At first glance both reactions differ strongly: CO binding requires far less reducing power to be accumulated on the enzyme, at its reduction involves a C–C bond formation but does not proceed to completion. The underlying principle of both reactions, however, is a repetitive formation of a terminal hydride by accumulation of two electrons and a proton that can then insert into a stably bound reaction intermediate. For the reduction of N2, an even stronger reductant is required that is formed by re of H2 from the E4 state. With only these two modes of operation, the enzyme functions as the most potent reductase in nature, and the astonishing diversity of its substrates may well be rationalized with a single mechanistic principle.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (RTG 1976, Project No. 235777276 and PP 1927, Project No. 311061829) and the European Research Council (Grant No. 310656).14. What is the future of single crystal studies in CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Paula Sebastián -Pascual and María Escudero-Escribano Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2100, DenmarkStatusSingle crystalline electrode surfaces are atomically-flat, well-defined surfaces with an ordered two-dimensional arrangement of atoms. They are model surfaces to understand the structure-property relations in electrocatalysis, and thus to design scalable, optimized nanostructured catalysts for enhanced electrocatalysis. The pioneering work by Hori et al on single crystalline electrodes during the 80s–90s, showed that the efficiency for the CO2R was highly dependent on the surface structure [161]. Model studies carried out on single-crystalline Au, Ag and Cu electrodes show that, while <110> facets of Au and Ag are highly active and selective towards the formation of CO, Cu stands out as the only pure metal capable to convert CO2 beyond CO to produce a variety of interesting products. Several studies have shown that the <100> facet is selective towards the production of ethylene. In addition, the introduction of steps and under-coordinated sites in combination with <100> terraces is more effective in producing C2 products, such as ethylene and ethanol [54, 162].The role, type and distribution of active sites with different coordination number on CO2R electrocatalysis is still under discussion [6]. This is due to different reasons, including: (a) the difficulty in controlling and testing the surface ordering before, after and under reaction conditions; (b) the lack of electrochemical methods to quantify the number of active sites, as well as the amount and creation of new defects and domains on Cu, under different electrochemical environments. Metallic surfaces are very dynamic and undergo re-faceting and transformation with time under different reduction potentials, which complicates finding the real relations between structure and catalytic performance [163].To fill these experimental gaps and rationally describe the structure-activity-selectivity relations for CO2R, it is key to combine electrochemical methods with surface-sensitive and atomic-scale in-situ characterization. This unique combination will be essential to elucidate the distribution of domains and changes in the surface structure under potential conditions, providing a detailed picture of the electrochemical interface [6]. These studies will also provide an in-depth understanding of the role of the electrolyte on the changes of the electrified interface structure under reaction conditions. Ultimately, the knowledge from well-controlled studies on single crystals will be key to engineer more stable, active and selective electrode–electrolyte interfaces and fabricate scalable catalysts operating at long time periods at devices such as GDEs [164].Current and future challengesCyclic voltammograms on single crystalline electrodes provide the electrochemical fingerprint of the electrode-electrolyte interface (figure 22(A)). Recent experiments on Cu(100) and Cu(111) showed that voltammetric profiles in alkaline media presented clear signs of contamination and an unknown amount of defects-sites. This suggested a lack of control of the real surface ordering and cleanness under reaction conditions in experiments [165]. Consequently, experimental work on CO2R on Cu single-crystalline surfaces needs to be revisited. In contrast to <111> and <100> flat facets, defect-rich and polycrystalline Cu surfaces present low intense voltammetric features, offering scarce information of the surface structure. In particular, there is a lack of electrochemical tools for reliable quantification of the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) and the contribution of different crystallographic domains on Cu-based electrodes. Studies on Cu single facets have shown that voltammetric underpotential deposition (UPD) of a submonolayer of a lesser-noble metal on Cu, such as Pb, provides intense and distinguishable peaks which shape and potential are facet-dependent [166]. Thus, metal UPD is a promising tool to elucidate the distribution of electrocatalytically active sites as well as the ECSA, of paramount importance to assess the CO2R activity.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 22. (A) Cyclic voltammogram of a Cu(111) electrode in contact with a 0.1 M NaOH electrolyte. (B) Shape-controlled nanoparticles and degradation. (C) Representation of electrochemical STM of a Cu single-crystalline electrode before and after 4 h of reaction. (D) Schematic representation of the in-situ electrochemical scanning microscopy mapping the catalytic activity of a polycrystalline surface.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Many metals undergo surface re-faceting. Interestingly, Cu reconstruction is both time and potential dependent, which affects the distribution of products [163]. Additionally, tuning the electrolyte composition substantially changes the product selectivity, and electrolyte effects on the CO2R are facet-dependent. However, the effect of the electrolyte on the surface transformations of Cu single crystalline electrodes over time requires further analysis. What drives the reconstruction on Cu is still under discussion and requires future analysis. Not only the surface–electrolyte interactions and the adsorption of the intermediates of the CO2R will influence the surface reconstruction mechanism, but also the subsurface hydrogen at potentials close to the hydrogen evolution [167–169]. These studies will be also key to investigate the potential-dependence of the degradation mechanism on shape-controlled nanoparticles (figure 22(B)) under reaction conditions.Controlled electrochemical experiments have shown that the catalytic performance on Cu is highly dependent on the potential limit conditions. Pulsing the applied potential from a reductive value to a higher value modifies the product distribution on Cu single crystalline electrodes, which has been ascribed to the generation of Cu motifs along with the formation of Cu(I) oxide [6]. It has been also claimed that defect-sites are essential to promote the formation of C2 carbon products such as ethylene and ethanol [6]. However, the difficulty to quantify the different domains on the entire Cu surface along with the surface dynamics makes it challenging to rationalize which structural parameters govern the catalytic performance of Cu-based catalysts for CO2R.Advances in science and technology to meet challenges
In situ elucidation and quantification of both the atomic-scale structure of well-defined interfaces and the distinct crystallographic domains on the electrode surface is vital to understand the structure-performance relations. In-situ surface-sensitive characterization techniques, such as electrochemical AFM [80] and STM [167], are essential to elucidate the structure of the electrocatalytically active site at the atomic scale (figure 22(C)). Combination of (spectro)electrochemical methods and in-situ/operando characterization techniques with high time and spatial resolution will provide information on the electrified interface structure. Interestingly, we can investigate the solvent ordering and surface electric field—two key parameters of electrochemical interfaces [170] that affect electrocatalytic reactions—by means of techniques such as the laser-induced temperature jump method. These techniques can be also an attractive approach to investigate the electrochemical properties of surfaces which have been selectively modified by adatoms, or by the specifically adsorbed electrolyte species. Another promising technique is in-situ electrochemical scanning microscopy [171], which allows for in-depth analysis of the electrified interface composition affecting the activity on specific crystallographic domains of a polycrystalline electrode (figure 22(D)). A challenge of this technique remains on the development of probe tips to differentiate between different carbon products beyond CO.The use of in-situ and operando techniques in combination with electrochemical methods will be required to describe bimetallic and multimetallic electrodes, for which the synergetic combination of several metals modifies the electrocatalytic CO2R [54]. Here, the fabrication of well-defined surfaces combining two or more metals in an alloy, forming adlayers, atomic ensembles or single atom catalysts, could shed lights into the geometric and electronic effects of multimetallic materials on the CO2R (figures 23(A) and (B)). We anticipate that reconstruction under different potential and time conditions will not only affect the atomic ordering, but also the surface chemical composition, influencing the CO2R performance.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 23. (A) Schematic representation of a well-defined reconstructed surface. (B) Atomic illustration of a bimetallic catalyst. (C) Illustration of a GDE in which the nature and structure of the active site is undefined.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Potential-controlled experiments used to analyze the structural aspects of well-defined electrode | electrolyte interfaces could be used to engineer GDE configurations (figure 23(C)), in which lesser rationalization of the active site positions has been performed. Methods for the determination of the real active surface area as well as the crystallinity of the particles, under different reaction environments, are necessary to understand which factors control the CO2RR at higher rates and lower mass transport limitations on GDEs [164]. This would open the door for the rational design of industrial electrocatalysts with surface structures capable to maintain high selectivity and activities during longer times.Concluding remarksControlled studies on single crystalline electrodes are necessary to describe the structural changes at the electrified interface affecting the CO2RR performance. Assessment of electrolyte effects on the surface reconstruction is key to rationally design and tune the surface dynamics of CO2R catalysts over time. Future studies investigating how to selectively tailor specific active sites positions on well-defined surfaces will be essential to understand and tailor engineered active site structures. In addition, electrochemical methods combined with in-situ/operando surface-sensitive and atomic-scale characterization techniques will allow to elucidate the catalytic performance on specific active site positions. These studies will be also key for the rationalization and design of more active, selective and stable nanostructured surfaces to be used in e.g. GDEs. Lastly, we highlight that future studies in single crystals should be extended to multimetallic surfaces in which the surface re-faceting and metallic segregation will highly affect CO2 electroreduction.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge the Villum Foundation for financial support through a Villum Young Investigator Grant (Project Number: 19142), and the Danish foundation through the DFF-Research Project 1 (Thematic Research, green transition) Grant with Number: 0217-00213A. We also acknowledge support from the Danish National Research Foundation Center of Excellence 'Center for High Entropy Alloy Catalysis' (DNRF-149).15. What are the open questions in the mechanistic understanding of CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Alisson H M da Silva, Rafaël E Vos, Zhiqin Liang, Xuan Liu and Marc T M Koper Leiden Institute of Chemistry, Einsteinweg 55, 2333 CC Leiden, The NetherlandsStatusThe mechanistic understanding of the electrochemical CO2R has been studied since the first report by Hori et al [1]. The current status of our understanding is roughly correlated to the number of carbons: as the number of carbons in the products increase, our knowledge about the reaction mechanism becomes less detailed. For the C1 and C2 products, several advances and important findings have been achieved by different groups over the years. Still, many disagreements about the exact pathways on Cu electrodes remain, as discussed by Nitopi et al [54], and as summarized in figure 24. For C1 compounds, the intermediates *COOH and *OCHO are considered to produce CO and HCOOH, respectively. The formation of CH4 and CH3OH is typically assumed to have CO as an intermediate that is further reduced [172]. For the synthesis of C2 products, OC–CO dimerization is the most accepted pathway for the C–C bond formation, as predicted by DFT calculations [173, 174] and experimentally detected by FTIR [105], although there is still some debate about whether the coupling takes place between two CO adsorbates or between CHO and CO adsorbates. Besides the C–C bond formation, it is not yet known what makes the C2 intermediates to be driven to a specific product (e.g. ethylene vs ethanol, or why ethane, glycolaldehyde, and ethylene glycol are not produced in significant amounts). Although OC–CO dimerization and HOC–CO coupling are accepted as C–C bond formation pathways for C2 products, it is less clear how the additional C–C bond is made for the synthesis of propanol and other C3 compounds. Recent work suggests carbonyl coupling as the most likely pathway [35, 175] but more research is needed to exclude potential alternatives. Formation of butanol and C4+ compounds are never reported with FEs better than 1% and therefore there are not many studies about the reaction mechanism for C4+ compounds. The most mature understanding of the formation of butanol consists of an aldol condensation of acetaldehyde to produce crotonaldehyde, followed by its electroreduction to butanal, and then to 1-butanol [176]. Future mechanistic work will likely focus on mechanisms for carbon-chain growth and to understand how and why these mechanisms are different from other mechanisms, such as those applicable for e.g. Fischer–Tropsch synthesis.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 24. Possible mechanistic pathways of CO2R to C1 and C2 products on copper, grouped into different colored reaction schemes taken from the works in the top-right legend (respective references can be found in the original paper of Nitopi et al [54]). Reprinted with permission from [54]. Copyright (2019) American Chemical Society.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesApart from the open questions regarding the nature of carbon-chain growth mechanism, as discussed in the previous paragraph, there remain important open questions about the nature of the initial activation of CO2, and how it depends on catalyst and electrolyte environment. More insights are necessary into how the electrode and/or the electrolyte stabilize the first intermediate CO2
•− so that the required potential to make this intermediate (−1.9 V vs normal hydrogen electrode) is drastically reduced; interaction with catalyst and electrolyte cation appear to be important factors in this [171]. Also, there appear to be multiple mechanisms for formate/formic acid formation: a hydride-mediated mechanism, a mechanism in which CO2 interacts with the catalyst via the oxygen, and a mechanism in which the CO2
•− radical intermediate is formed at very negative potential, and subsequently reacts with water. Insights are needed into which mechanism dominates under which conditions. Among the more reduced C1 products, methanol is the most intriguing product as it is hardly ever observed as a product on Cu electrodes at standard conditions. Although several advances have been achieved for selective methanol synthesis on bimetallic materials [172], the challenge is to understand how to guide the intermediate from CO selectively to CH2O, and then to methanol [4]. It has become clear in recent years that many electrocatalytic pathways are highly sensitive to the electrolyte composition (pH, presence of cations). It is known that the nature of the local environment influences the activity and selectivity of CO2R, but the detailed effect of the local DL composition (local pH, local cation/anion identity and concentration) remains incompletely understood and one of the important challenges consists in how to measure these effects both locally and individually. This observation of the importance of the electrolyte may partially explain the differences observed in the reaction mechanisms in electrocatalysis from those observed in thermocatalysis. Related to this, there is a lack of detailed work in the literature regarding the reaction mechanism in non-aqueous (organic) electrolytes and if those environments can guide the reaction towards different intermediates and products. Electrode modifications by organic layers have been shown to give rise to significant activity and selectivity effects, which also remain incompletely understood.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesFurther fundamental work is needed using well-defined electrode structures under well-defined electrolyte and mass transport conditions, combining electrochemistry experiments, in situ spectroscopy (see sections 7–9), and high-level simulations (see section 5). Future computational work should address the complexity of the interface, not only at the quantum-chemical molecular level in terms of calculating barriers and detailed electrolyte effects, but also at the multi-scale level where kinetics couple with mass transport and complex nanoscale electrode architectures. Also, we believe that are fundamental opportunities in high-temperature and high-pressure experiments. Such 'new' conditions would allow us to gain more knowledge about the mechanisms as new pathways may open up or current pathways appear applicable to new catalysts, such as for example C2+ formation on Ag at high pressure [175]. Moreover, high-pressure and high-temperature experiments can bridge towards thermocatalytic CO2R, and may elucidate certain mechanisms that remain elusive in electrochemical CO2R, such as methanol synthesis.Given the importance of the (local) electrolyte composition, instrumental advances are needed in measuring local properties, such as the local pH. Various operando studies have been dedicated to measuring the local concentrations near the electrode surface [176], but we are still far from reaching the required spatial and temporal resolution under relevant mass-transport conditions. Developments of in-situ techniques with high X–Y–Z resolution are still needed to image the 3D local concentration profiles within the diffusion layer, to further disentangle local effects in electrochemical CO2RR, and to capture possible reaction intermediates as well. Infrared and Raman spectroscopy are recognized to be promising tools for local concentration measurements, although the XY resolution is limited and Z resolution is typically fixed in these experiments. Coupling electrochemistry with well-known 3D resolution scanning probe microscopy technique using ultramicroelectrodes is also a promising alternative. Finally, the well-defined diffusion-convection properties of the 'good-old' rotation-ring-disk-electrode make it an unparalleled technique to study local concentration gradient effects under mass transport-controlled conditions, and clever extensions of this methodology may further contribute to a detailed quantitative picture. In general, this is definitely an area where important instrumental advances in electrochemistry are required to make further progress in understanding the interplay between local reactivity, mass transport, and nanoscale architecture.Concluding remarksThe mechanistic understanding of the electrocatalytic CO2R still has many open questions. Controlling the distribution of C1 products is still a challenge, especially for methanol synthesis. Selective synthesis of a specific C2 compound is also far from being fully understood, and the selective synthesis of C3 and C4+ products is at a very early stage. Future fundamental work must address the role of the electrode and electrolyte at various length scales, including the effect of mass transport and nanoscale architecture. This will require the development of new measurement techniques with 3D resolution, as well as the formulation and testing of multi-scale models. Furthermore, we believe there are opportunities in performing fundamental CO2R experiments under less conventional conditions, such as the development of electrochemical reactors at high pressure and high temperature, and the usage of non-aqueous solvents. High-pressure and high-temperature electrochemistry may also link naturally to thermocatalytic CO2 hydrogenation, and may help in gaining a better fundamental understanding of the relation between electrocatalysis and high-temperature heterogeneous catalysis.AcknowledgmentsThis research was carried out under Project Number ENPPS.IPP.019.002 in the framework of the Research Program of the Materials innovation institute (M2i) (www.m2i.nl) and received funding from Tata Steel Nederland Technology BV and the Dutch Research Council (NWO) in the framework of the ENW PPP Fund for the top sectors and from the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the framework of the 'PPS-Toeslagregeling'.16. How to engineer surfaces to tailor reactivity?Ludmilla Steier Department of Materials, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, United KingdomStatusElectrosynthesis targeting high-value chemicals such as ethylene, ethanol, CO and formic acid has been suggested as a suitable market-entry strategy potentially able to displace existing petrochemical processes [54, 177]. Despite the increasing urgency, cost-competitiveness with our already established infrastructure remains a crucial hurdle posing demanding requirements on catalyst design to produce these chemicals with higher energy conversion efficiency, product selectivity and operational durability.Catalyst design is driven by the development of a detailed understanding of the underlying reaction mechanisms while mechanistic pathways can only be corroborated by high quality experiments. A vivid example of this symbiosis are the works on the classification of metal electrocatalysts for the CO2RR. Hori et al (and others to that time) observed that several hydrocarbons (methane, ethylene) and alcohols (ethanol and propanol) can be obtained in significant quantities on copper electrocatalysts while other transition metal and p-block elements predominantly and sometimes exclusively form H2 (Ni, Fe, Pt, Ti, Ga), CO (Au, Ag, Zn) or HCOO− (Pb, Hg, In, Sn, Cd, Tl) [57]. Thanks to the care in electrolyte purification (via pre-electrolysis), electrode preparation (mechanical and electropolishing) and the breadth of the experiments on a series of metals, these trends have been reproducible and reliable for the development of our current understanding of the reaction mechanism.To explain reactivity of these pure metal surfaces, binding energies of key intermediates have been identified as useful descriptors that evaluate catalytic reaction steps based on the degree of orbital overlap with the adsorbate and the degree of filling of antibonding states on adsorption [178]. Using these reactivity descriptors, it is now well known that the above-mentioned classification can be explained based on the binding energies for *CO and *H as described in section 5 [58]. Amongst all pure metals, only Cu is able to produce hydrocarbons and alcohols due to its intermediate *CO and weak *H binding energies. However, it requires a significant overpotential to drive CO2RR and typically produces a variety of products. Improved catalyst design could result in more selective and efficient catalysts, greatly improving the economic viability of electrochemical CO2R.Current and future challengesCareful design of experiments is needed to extract information on reactivity descriptors towards high value C2+ products. Surface engineering approaches such as nanostructuring, facet engineering, alloying, defect engineering or surface modifications (overlayers, small molecules, polymers) in combination with catalyst testing, thorough operando and post testing material characterization and computational work offer countless opportunities to explore structure-function relationships that can uncover key reactivity descriptors. One major challenge is to design well-defined surfaces that give insight on the active site and remain stable—even at commercially viable current densities (CDs). Clever experiment design is needed to assess the active site and understand if it becomes e.g. bimetallic with an altered binding energy for key intermediates or if two separate sites work in tandem. Furthermore, secondary stabilization effects of intermediates by defects or non-metallic heteroatoms (B, N, halides and others) located for example at steps adjacent to the active site atom are still not well explored or understood.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesIn order to relate the activity of an electrocatalyst to our understanding of CO2 electroreduction on an atomic scale, it is necessary to control metal facets also in nanostructured catalysts. It is known from studies on Cu single crystals that ethylene formation is enhanced on Cu(100) terraces with further enhancement through (111) or (110) steps on those terraces [2, 6]. Targeting this basal plane in nanoparticle synthesis is hence a promising approach that has shown to yield high C2+ FEs while achieving high CDs [179]. In the latter study, surface reconstruction has been intentionally used for catalyst synthesis such that the (100) facets were favored during the material synthesis under CO2R conditions and were less expressed when the synthesis was carried out under hydrogen evolution. This is a rare example of controlled surface reconstruction.Several studies have reported on catalyst reconstruction affecting not only morphology and structure but also surface composition and oxidation state. The latter has been shown to be important in tailoring selectivity toward ethanol via coexisting Cu(I) and Cu(0) species [6]. Thus, strategies are needed to restrict surface reconstruction where not intended. One such strategy is the use of overlayers. A recent study used graphene to stabilize catalytic activity towards C2+ products over a testing period of 180 h (figure 25(a)) [180]. Interestingly, the 'quasi-graphitic' surface overlayer seemed to be permeable for the incorporation of heteroatoms such as nitrogen and boron which needs further understanding. The authors demonstrated FEs for C2+ products reaching about 80% at −0.7 VRHE and 400 mA cm−2 with nitrogen-doped copper core catalysts which were protected with the quasi-graphitic shell.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 25. (a) Formation mechanism of the quasi-graphitic C shell on Cu nanoparticles through the disproportionation of CO. Reproduced from [180]. CC BY 4.0. (b) FEs for samples modified with two ALD cycles of SnO2 (left), for unmodified samples (middle) and as a function of the number of cycles of SnO2 (right). Adapted with permission from Springer Nature, Nature Energy [181], Copyright 2017.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Semi-permeable overlayers of non-reducible oxides, chalcogenides, phosphides, and nitrides could potentially achieve similar effects of restricting surface reconstruction and, in addition, impact selectivity. Here, atomic layer deposition can prove powerful due to its layer-by-layer growth mechanism. For example, it has been shown that the selectivity towards CO of a CuO nanowire electrode could be switched from <20% to more than 70% with a single cycle of SnO2 (less than a monolayer) [181]. The selectivity was maintained between 80% and 85% for 2–10 cycles of SnO2 (corresponding to <1.5 nm) before dropping sharply to 30% for 30 cycles (when a dense pinhole-free film of SnO2 begins to form [182]) concomitant with increased production of formate and hydrogen (figure 25(b)). Such precision in surface modification is difficult to achieve with other techniques and has recently led to increased selectivity towards ethanol [183].The role of non-metal heteroatoms has to be better understood. In addition to the study mentioned above, several works reported enhanced selectivity to C2+ products with the implementation of nonmetallic heteroatoms (B, C, N, P) into the surface [184, 185]. The drivers behind the change in reactivity are yet to be understood. In a recent work on halide-doped copper, the authors argued that electronegativity might be the driving force varying the charge density on copper, enhancing CO adsorption and promoting the formation of a *CHO intermediate that can undergo C–C coupling [186]. They also suggested that halides can promote water dissociation supplying *H for the hydrogenation of *CO. As is true for many surface modifications, it seems that one minor change in the surface composition induces several effects on the reaction mechanism that need to be decoupled. As such, surfaces need to be even better defined. Here, the study of alternative non-metallic catalysts (e.g. semiconducting, single atom catalysts/alloys, molecular catalysts such as Fe- or Mn-porphyrins [187]) could shed more light on the reaction mechanism beyond *CO due to more defined density of states in these materials such that the function of heteroatoms can be further elucidated. Activity of such catalysts might be compromised for selectivity but a better understanding from the viewpoint of bonding between the density of states of surfaces with the adsorbate orbitals might bring valuable intuitive insight that can then be translated back to the design of more active catalysts.Concluding remarksIt remains challenging to design new electrocatalysts with tailored reactivity towards high-value chemicals at the CDs and selectivities required for them to be cost-competitive green alternatives to current fossil-fuel derived products. In the lab this challenge translates to the requirement to engineer, characterize and understand catalyst surfaces on the atomic scale to improve their performance.Solution-based material synthesis techniques under the catalytic reaction conditions have shown to be able to produce nanostructured catalysts with high surface areas and desired facets that are less prone to undergo further surface reconstruction. On the other hand, surface engineering techniques hold great promise to also restrict undesired surface reconstruction and further the understanding of heteroatoms and overlayers on nanostructured catalyst surfaces. It has to be noted though, that special care should be taken to avoid surface contamination as every so little unwanted impurity can be detrimental to catalyst reactivity (e.g. common traces of Fe in electrolytes can lead to all selectivity to C2+ products being entirely lost).Finally, it remains worrying that, despite tremendous efforts in catalyst design, the barrier for electrosynthesized chemicals and fuels to enter the market (including green hydrogen) might remain too high for too long without bolder policy incentives [188]. Instead of relying on established technologies to ensure energy security when supply from photovoltaics and wind is low, stronger incentives could pave the way for electrosynthesis of fuels and chemicals to be increasingly seen as an economic opportunity and not only as a potent decarbonization strategy.AcknowledgmentsL S acknowledges her Imperial College Research Fellowship in the Department of Materials and would like to thank Mr Benjamin T Bowers and Dr Soren Scott for their useful comments on this article.17. How can we nanostructure Cu towards optimal CO2RR selectivity?Raffaella Buonsanti Laboratory of Nanochemistry for Energy (LNCE), Institute of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1950 Sion, SwitzerlandStatusA variety of nanostructured copper electrodes has been investigated to determine those structural features which direct selectivity in CO2RR. These catalysts include 3D electrodes and supported nanoparticles.Three-dimensional nanostructured electrodes have been synthesized via different treatments of Cu and copper oxide, such as thermal annealing or in-situ potential cycling [54, 189, 190]. These electrodes have provided interesting information; for example, the importance of grain boundaries for the reduction of CO to ethanol [189]. However, the ill-defined nature of these catalysts leaves doubts on whether the surface roughness only or other intrinsic structural features of the catalysts (i.e. specific surface sites, facet orientation, size and shape of the pores, etc) account for their behavior. Actually, the comparison among 3D Cu prepared via different routes has suggested that the enhancement towards C2+ products is mostly related to the increased geometric surface area [54, 190]. The latter allows to reach higher current densities and, therefore, to enter into a mass transport limited regime at lower overpotentials compared to planar electrodes [54, 190].Well-defined Cu nanoparticles are emerging as extremely valuable model systems to uncover a diverse range of phenomena which contribute to increase the selectivity towards certain products. For example, a size-dependent study on Cu nanospheres has revealed that particles smaller than 5 nm promote the competing HER versus CO2RR, which suggested a high number of undercoordinated sites to be deleterious for CO2RR [191]. Different studies afterwards have found a similar trend also in shaped particles, with smaller particles promoting HER [192, 193]. At the same time, particle loading has also emerged as an important parameter. Indeed, it can tune the product distribution based on mass transfer effects and product reabsorption [54]. Furthermore, it can also impact the sintering behavior of nanoparticles. For example, 8 nm Cu nanospheres were shown to evolve into nanocubes at high loading density, thus becoming selective towards ethylene [194].Shape-controlled Cu nanocrystals (NCs) have contributed not only to translate findings from single crystals to studies under more realistic conditions but also to reveal structure properties relations which would be difficult to assess otherwise. Cu nano-cubes have been the most studied system in this category. In addition to confirm the preferential formation of ethylene on Cu(100) surfaces, size dependent studies have revealed how an optimal ratio between (100) terraces and (110) steps must be sought after to increase selectivity towards ethylene [192]. One study on Cu nano-octahedra has shown a similar relationship for optimal (111)/(110) ratio for methane production [193]. More recently, these well-defined Cu NCs coupled with CO-producing Ag nanospheres have also aided to identify that the formation pathway towards ethanol shares common intermediates with methane rather than ethylene, therefore revealing a valuable design principle to increase selectivity towards alcohols [195].Figure 26 summarizes the major points discussed above.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 26. Some of the lessons learned so far from nanostructured copper catalysts. These lessons include: (1) increased surface roughness generally enhances C2+ products, although the reasons behind such behavior remain unclear; (2) the exposed facets (i.e. nanocatalyst shape) and the ratio between them (i.e. nanocatalyst size) control the selectivity; (3) shaped-defined nanocatalysts can be utilized to uncover mechanistic pathways, for example elucidate the branching point between ethylene and ethanol. Reprinted with permission from [195]. Copyright (2021) American Chemical Society.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesFigure 27 identified the major challenges ahead. As mentioned above, the 3D nanostructured Cu electrodes are ill-defined. One future challenge is to prepare them with controlled porosity (i.e. inverse opals), uniform grain size and orientation, tunable structural features. Only such approach will shed light on the specific morphological features regulating the product distribution.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 27. Some of the future challenges to advance the understanding of structure sensitivity and nanoscale effects of CO2RR to move towards more selective and, eventually, more stable catalysts. These challenges include: (1) expanding the current library of shaped-controlled Cu NCs to translate theoretical discoveries and surface science studies; (2) understanding the mechanisms and phenomena behind Cu reconstruction; (3) developing analytical tools to gain further insights into the active sites. Reprinted with permission from [196]. Copyright (2008) American Chemical Society.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
On the other side, well-defined Cu NCs have already started to have potential as model system to reveal selectivity rules in CO2RR. Nevertheless, the variety of shapes attainable with the current synthetic methods is still limited. Only spheres, cubes, octahedra, nanorods have been studied so far. To obtain NCs exposing high index facets is still a challenge, yet highly desirable to understand reaction pathway towards products different than ethylene by taking inspiration from calculations and other single crystal studies [196]. To cite one example, it would be interesting to obtain cubic nanocages to assess the role of steps independently from terraces.While the presence of high index facets is desirable, they are expected to be metastable. Therefore, it will be important to assess if and how they change during operation, especially to identify the chemical nature of the copper intermediate species behind their eventual reconstruction. Indeed, such knowledge might open opportunities to modulate the NC shape during operation and to direct it toward the most stable and selective form.It is also still a challenge to characterize the surface sites active during CO2RR. While this is not trivial due to the heterogeneity of NC surfaces, to identify their nature will be important moving forward to gain further insights into the impact of structural effects on reaction mechanisms.Finally, unsupported nanoparticles are ideal for integration into different electrochemical devices, including the vapor-fed systems which are those enabling to achieve commercially relevant current densities. Only a few studies have explored this direction so far and more efforts should be undertaken to understand how the reaction microenvironment can aid to direct selectivity. In addition to providing knowledge about translating catalyst design principles from model devices, to integrate well-defined Cu NCs in vapor-fed electrolyzers might also provide insight into their technological relevance. The scale up of their synthesis should then be tackled as the next challenge.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesTo expand the library of accessible shapes of Cu NCs, their material chemistry must be further developed. Colloidal chemistry is the most powerful approach to produce well-defined NCs which also come as inks, thus facilitating their integration in different types of electrolyzers. The rich diversity of noble metal nanoparticles with different shapes (e.g. Au, Ag, Pt, Pd) corroborates such a statement. However, the knowledge behind the formation of non-noble metal nanoparticles, including Cu, is lacking behind. Their tendency to oxidize requires the development of synthetic methodologies in organic solvent, instead of the aqueous environment used for noble metals. To gain mechanistic insight into nucleation and growth will be crucial to develop a more rational approach to synthesis.To study reconstruction processes, combining the ongoing development in in-situ and operando electron microscopy with analytical tools which enable the identification of the chemical nature of the intermediates involved in the process would be extremely beneficial. To develop protocols for electrochemical adsorption experiments on Cu nanoparticles would represent a valuable addition to the current state-of-the-art. CO stripping has been interestingly used to gain information on electrocatalytic behavior of Pt nanoparticles [197]. To perform similar studies on shape-controlled Cu NCs coupled with differential EMS (DEMS) for product detection would be important to gain additional fundamental insight into the structural sensitivity of the CO2RR selectivity. Figure 27 summarizes the major points discussed above.Finally, calculations aiming at building Wulff constructions and compositional phase diagrams, which integrate size and shape dependence as well as voltage and solvent effects would be desirable to complement synthesis and reconstruction studies under operation as well as possibly becoming predictive about their outcome.Concluding remarksNanostructuring of electrocatalysts is a powerful tool to achieve high ECSAs, thus high geometric CDs at lower overpotentials, as well as to enable translation of single crystal studies under more realistic conditions, including vapors-fed devices, in the case of nanoparticles with well-defined size and shape. The latter provide also opportunities to interrogate reaction pathways by exploiting their facet-dependent selectivity. Future development to increase the accessible shapes of Cu NCs along with fundamental understanding of their surfaces and their reconstruction during catalysis is expected to guide even further catalyst design to improve CO2RR selectivity towards the desired target products.AcknowledgmentsR B thanks the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant Agreement No. 715634-HYCAT). This publication was created as part of NCCR Catalysis, a National Centre of Competence in Research funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation.18. How to optimize GDEs for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Kentaro U Hansen and Feng Jiao Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, 150 Academy Street, Newark, DE 19716, United States of AmericaStatusTo deploy CO2 electrolyzers at scale as CO2 utilization technologies, electrochemical CO2R must be operated at practical conversion rates to minimize capital costs. However, at such CDs (the electrolyzer current attributable to CO2R normalized by electrode area), the CO2R cathode may suffer from reactant starvation, leading to a poor energetic efficiency and a limited CD for CO2R. Vapor-fed CO2R, can solve the issue by improving CO2 transport to the active catalyst. In practice, this can be accomplished with a GDE design, which allows for rapid transport of vapor fed CO2 through a GDL comprised of a porous conductive material (e.g. carbon paper) coated with a well-dispersed catalyst layer; simultaneously enabling good CO2 mass transport and ionic/electronic conduction between the current collector and electrolyte (figure 28(a)).
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 28. (a) Schematic cross-section of a CO2R GDE employing a typical carbon-based GDL substrate, hydrophobically treated microporous layer (MPL) and a well-dispersed catalyst layer (CL). (b) Exemplary interventions to modify water management and CO2 transport properties of the GDE.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
A typical CO2R GDE is fabricated by depositing a catalyst layer directly onto a GDL, typically a commercially available carbon-based substrate with hydrophobic treatment. However, poor electrode stability (<100 h) with electrolyte saturation (flooding) is a persistent issue, typically attributed to salt penetration into the GDL that compromises the hydrophobic property [198]. On a case-by-case basis, alternative GDL substrates [51], porous fillers for the catalyst layer [199], and functionalized polymeric binders [53] have all been employed to optimize GDE properties (figure 28(b)). Still, basic principles to rationally optimize any given GDE based on the used electrolyte remain elusive. Moreover, only a handful of reports come close to a stable performance on the order of 10 000 h and energetic efficiencies necessary for an economically feasible CO2R process [200]. Uncovering the relationship between GDE performance with other electrolyzer components (e.g. electrolyte) via characterization and modeling efforts can accelerate the discovery of materials and methods to achieve target GDE performance and stability criteria for deployment as a CO2 utilization technology.Current and future challengesThe focal issue for designing optimal GDEs for CO2R lies in reliably achieving stable selectivity and efficiency at high CDs. Minor changes in material (e.g. ion conductive membrane), additives to the GDE, humidification of the CO2 feed have all been shown to have potentially governing effects on the overall GDE performance [200, 201]. Some studies have sought to explain these differences as the presence of a liquid electrolyte (or lack thereof) and modes of ionic conduction between the cathode and anode in the electrolyzer changing local conditions regarding water, pH, salt, and product management [201]. For context, we illustrate how one crucial design factor, local water management, can change with CD and electrolyzer configuration (table 2). Therefore, GDEs optimized for one specific configuration may not translate well in another due to a mismatch in the GDE design and existing factors. It is well-known for other electrochemical reactions, such as oxygen reduction reaction, that substantial discrepancies exist between performance in a rotating disc setup versus in a membrane-electrode assembly (MEA) configuration [202]. Therefore, fundamental catalyst studies that may have stellar performance with a particular GDE in an ex-situ three-electrode configuration need be confirmed with tests in high-CD configurations where GDE design can alter catalyst performance.Table 2. Cathode stoichiometric water balance (H2O per electron) for electrochemical generation of vapor phase products.Mode of ionic conductionHCO3
−/OH−
CO3
2−
H+
Product
Carbon monoxide−0.500+0.50  CO2 + 2e− + H2O
CO + 2OH−
CO2 + 2e− + 2 H+
CO + H2OEthylene−0.67−0.17+0.33  2CO2 + 12e− + 8H2O
C2H4 + 12OH−
2CO2 + 12e− + 12 H+
C2H4 + 4H2OHydrogen (byproduct)−1−0.500  2 H2O + 2e−
H2 + 2OH−
2H+ + 2e−
H2
Bicarbonate buffer reactions
CO2
HCO3
−
CO3
2− + H2O
Water content of a humidified gas stream
(4 sccm dry gas per cm2 of electrode at 1 atm)
CO3
2−
HCO3
−
CO2 + H2O
Tdew (°C)H2O flowrate (μmol H2O s−1)H2O per electron (At 500 mA cm−2) 200.070.01 500.420.08 802.650.51The water content of humidified vapor streams is provided to contextualize how much water can be supplied by (or lost to) the cathode vapor stream. Other important factors for water balance at the GDE include electro-osmotic drag (on the order of ±1 H2O per electron) and water diffusion through a membrane. As a first approximation, water diffusion through membranes is of the order of 42.5 μmol cm−2 s−1 or approximately 1 H2O per electron at 4 A cm−2 (based on literature for Nafion 212 water diffusion with an activity gradient of 0.5 [205]).A similar issue exists with many CO2R cathode catalyst studies that seek to show the best cathode energetic efficiency with an alkaline electrolyte. While employing an alkaline liquid electrolyte improves cathode performance, the cost associated with carbonated electrolyte regeneration is untenable despite superior cathode performance [203]. Demonstrating catalyst performance in electrolyzer configurations that address the carbonation issue then begets a new set of challenges to redesign the binders, fillers, and GDL substrate to control the local environment, be it pH, hydration, and salt concentrations to get optimal CO2R GDE performance.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesTo address the technical challenges for CO2R GDEs, techniques to elucidate what makes for the most stable and optimal GDE/catalyst/electrolyte interface at working conditions for various electrolyzer configurations, active component materials are essential. For attractive electrolyzer configurations like an MEA, there are still opportunities to leverage experience from developing diagnostic tools for other electrochemical devices. For instance, advanced impedance techniques can provide in operando snapshots of GDE dynamics of different timescales (ionic/electronic conduction, charge transfer, and mass transport). Moreover, even without a liquid electrolyte, a reference electrode can still measure an isolated cathode potential against a known potential [204]. Techniques to determine local humidity, chemical concentrations, pH, and post-mortem characterization also have key roles in fully understanding the GDE at working conditions. The enhanced resolution from diagnostic tools can reduce the effort required to generate initially good GDE designs and operating strategies and increase confidence in catalyst screenings and system-level models, thereby accelerating progress in the field.Robust methods for accelerated stability testing are also necessary to extrapolate the stable performance of high-performance GDE design candidates. It is not practical to test all potential GDE designs at the time scale of 10 000 h. Existing accelerated stability testing protocols, such as well-established protocols for fuel cells, can provide a foundation to build upon [53]. The relative significance of CD, single-pass conversion, temperature, and concentration of liquid products (i.e. ethanol and acetate), all economically significant factors, on stability is not well understood. Robust protocols should provide the means to collect empirical evidence for developing theories of how these critical factors impact the lifetime of a GDE.Concluding remarksThe ideal (or benchmark) electrolyzer configuration and components for scaling up CO2R is still an open question. Consequently, there is a need for GDE design guidelines that account for the wide span of different electrolyzer configurations. The current standard case-by-case practice for optimizing the CO2R GDE based on measurements of hydrophobicity and selectivity towards CO2R products can be greatly accelerated with a toolbox of characterization tools and models. Finally, the development of accelerated stability testing protocols will greatly reduce the amount of time to examine the long-term stability of GDE designs, a critical factor for commercial applications.AcknowledgmentThis material is based upon work supported by the US Department of Energy under Award Number DE-FE0031910.19. What are the challenges to achieving steady state high CO2 utilization?Ming Ma1 and Brian Seger2
1 School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710049, People's Republic of China
2 Section for Surface Physics and Catalysis (SurfCat), Department of Physics, Technical University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, DenmarkStatusFor low temperature (<100 °C) CO2 electrolysis devices to be commercially viable, an effective separator needs to be used that prevents product crossover. However, the cathodic CO2R produces OH− as a byproduct, and OH− quickly equilibrates with CO2 to form HCO3
− or CO3
2− (CO2EQ), thus providing a highly undesirable loss mechanism that consumes no less than 50% of all CO2 reacted near the catalyst [206, 207]. While one can try to engineer around the captured CO2 forming HCO3
− or CO3
2−, CO2 electrolysis also both needs an alkaline environment to promote catalytic activity [54] and needs to minimize the thickness of any electrolyte layer between the catalyst and membrane to reduce ohmic losses.Typically, AEMs are used in CO2 electrolysis for a variety of beneficial reasons [10]. However, since AEMs transfer negatively charged ions, carbonates from CO2EQ are the dominant species transferred through the membrane after reaching steady state. This carbonate transfer not only reduces conductivity of the whole system (carbonate anions have low ion mobility), but once at the anode, the carbonate re-equilibrates (i.e. reacts) with the anodically produced protons from O2 evolution (figure 29(a)). The end result is that the carbonate is subsequently released as gaseous CO2 along with O2 stream at a CO2:O2 ratio of ∼2 [206].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 29. Carbon balance paths for CO2 captured at the cathodic GDE/catholyte interface and corresponding CO2 evolution in GDE-type flow electrolyzers when using an AEM (a), CEM (b) and BPM (c), respectively. These paths are based on a KHCO3 being used as the initial catholyte and anolyte. Reproduced from [208]. CC BY 3.0.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Cation exchange membranes (CEMs) prevents carbonate crossover, however they have other issues. While it is unclear why a MEA (i.e. zero gap) typically leads to H2 selectivity over CO2 reduced products with CEM [209, 210], the current approach is to have a liquid film between the cathode and membrane, which greatly increases ion transport losses and also makes maintaining cation balancing challenging. With the CEM conducting cations (figure 29(b)) from anode to cathode, this may lead to 'salting out' at the cathode. In addition, a rapid drop of conductivity at the anode side will occur if there is an electrolyte layer between the anode and membrane and the cation serves as the main charge-carrier [208].BPMs resolve both carbonate and cation issues (figure 29(c)) [208], but BPMs have a high membrane potential due to a sudden jump in the concentrations of H+ and OH− at the membrane/electrolyte interface [211].Current and future challengesThe unavoidable formation of carbonates near the cathodic GDE during CO2 electrolysis provides an incredible engineering challenge. As noted in figure 30, there are many paths, all with their own challenges. In general, the challenge is how effectively can we re-equilibrate carbonate back to CO2 while mitigating additional losses/issues.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 30. Diagram of the special challenges for addressing the carbonate issues.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
For AEM, the challenge will be effectively separating the mixed CO2 and O2 stream to allow CO2 to be recycled rather than vented to the atmosphere. Beside O2 evolution, however, a more valuable anodic reaction such as Cl2 evolution may potentially reduce costs in recycling the CO2. If an anodic liquid product would be produced, separations would be even easier. Thus, the challenge is to find high-value anodic products that could scale to match the demand for CO2 electrolysis products.For CEM and BPM, a major challenge will be to balance the cation concentration at the cathode for zero gap approaches. Excess cations at the cathode can lead to oversaturation and the cations salting out that may block gas flow, but electrolyte cations (e.g. K+, Cs+) are essential to create a strong electric field for effective catalysis [54]. This problem becomes magnified for zero gap approaches with extremely low or no cation concentration (with H+ being the dominant ion transfer mechanism), leading to high H2 selectivity.BPM easily allows for the carbonate to be converted back to CO2 at the cathode side, allowing in situ recycling of the CO2, however the required high potential for BPM will diminish EE of the overall electrolyzer [208].With diaphragms allowing all charged species to penetrate, this can reduce issues related to anodic CO2 evolution and salting out at the cathode. However, product crossover is a major concern, especially for liquid products. With minimal work done with diaphragms, there could be additional unforeseen challenges (or benefits).Advances in science and technology to meet challenges
For addressing the CO2 utilization related challenges, the necessary advances in science technology are discussed below.
AEM: Improvements in CO2/O2 separation techniques will help advance this approach, and creativity in varying anodic reactions such as Cl2 or Br2 evolution, H2 oxidation, etc could either potentially lower costs for recycling CO2 or simplify anodic separation and improve overall process efficiency. From a techno-economic perspective, analyzing separation techniques is essential to find potentially synergistic processes to work with AEM based CO2 electrolysis.
Zero gap electrolyzer with CEM: This approach needs to understand why H2 selectivity dominates over CO2R, and resolve this problem. With the pH and electric field effect both strongly affecting selectivity, mass transfer modeling of local conditions is essential to address this issue. Optimal conditions need to be found to maintain a high (but undersaturated) steady state cation concentration just at the cathode.
BPM: The major advance needed for this approach is to reduce the overpotential for driving water dissociation inside the BPM (figure 30). Recent breakthroughs for decreasing membrane potentials have been reported [212], thus showing promise in this field. Due to their complexity, long term durability of BPM is also a concern to date.
Diaphragm: Detailed diaphragm design and proper parametrization is required for greatly reducing product crossover while mitigating losses of ion transport through the diaphragm.
A two-step cascade process: CO2 upconversion to CO can be achieved via biomass pyrolysis, hydrogen electrolysis with reverse water-gas shift, or solid oxide based CO2 electrolysis with none of these approaches having carbonate issues. Since CO is the first intermediate in CO2 electrolysis, we could use an alternative approach with no carbonate issues to produce CO initially from CO2, and then just employ CO electrolysis instead of CO2 electrolysis. CO electroreduction does not produce carbonates, which resolves the major challenge with AEM, thus making this cascaded process a highly appealing approach.Concluding remarksThere are many forks in the road to finding a successful approach towards commercially viable low-temperature CO2 electrolysis (figure 30). A major issue with all approaches is that there has been a lack of modeling of a full chemical plant with separations and a complete techno-economic analysis. Thereby, we are relatively blind to the degree to which process needs to advance scientifically to be economically viable. It should be noted that both biomass conversion and electrolysis based hydrogen followed by thermal processes with CO2 can also provide most of the same products as CO2 electrolysis. With these competitive processes on the horizon, this short perspective entails there is an urgent need for the CO2 electrolysis field to filter out non-viable paths and make the necessary breakthroughs for developing a commercially competitive approach towards hydrocarbons and organic species.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to acknowledge funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under Grant Agreement No. 85144, (SELECTCO2) as well as the ECOEthylene project from Innovation Fund Denmark (Grant #8057-00018B). Authors also acknowledge National Natural Science Foundation of China (22179105).20. How might bipolar membranes (BPMs) optimize CO2R electrolyzer efficiency?Shannon W Boettcher Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and the Oregon Center for Electrochemistry, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, United States of AmericaStatusCO2 electrolysis offers the prospect of using CO2 captured from exhaust gas, the atmosphere, or the ocean as a precursor to high-value hydrocarbons or fuels [177]. Recent advances applying fuel-cell and electrolyzer technology concepts have led to CO2 electrolyzers running at >1 A cm−2, albeit with large voltages and thus low energy efficiency (EE) <30% [51]. The high current density (CD), however, is important because higher product production rates are needed to offset capital expenditures, similar to water-electrolyzer technology.CO2 electrolyzers usually use proton- or hydroxide-conducting ion-selective membranes, a cathode electrocatalyst supported on a GDE, a soluble supporting electrolyte at neutral to basic pH, and a porous anode electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution (figure 31) [10]. While the liquid electrolytes conduct the ionic current from the GDE to the ionomer membrane, and control the anode and cathode pH, they are not strictly needed. Designs which use only solid-ionomer electrolytes, similar to PEM water electrolyzers, will be ultimately preferred because of reduced shunt currents (through the electrolyte flow paths) [213] and thus simpler stack construction using bipolar plates.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 31. Membranes in CO2 electrolysis. (A) Typical MEA used for CO2 electrolysis. Liquid electrolyte may or may not be added to the anode (anolyte) and cathode (catholyte). The catalyst layer is mixed with ionomer to facilitate ionic conduction. (B) In typical designs, ions such as HCO3
− flow through the AEM or K+ through a CEM yielding reduced CO2 utilization and unwanted pH gradients. When BPMs are used, the primary ionic transport processes are OH− and H+ moving outward from the center of the membrane. (C) Expanded view of a BPM. The water dissociation catalyst layer, typically metal oxide nanoparticles, is critical to improve performance and enable use for electrolysis at high currents.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Thermochemical CO2 hydrogenation (with renewable H2 and electrical heat) directly competes with electrochemical processes. Thermochemistry has the advantages of known reactor engineering and scaling, as well as fast kinetics at high temperatures. Routes are evident to commercially viable fuels and chemicals if CO2 streams and renewable H2 at ∼$2 kg−1 are available [214]. In order for low-temperature CO2 electrolysis to compete, high efficiency and selectivity, low capital expense, and high durability are essential. Here we discuss how new BPMs may help in meeting this challenge.Current and future challengesSerious challenges facing hydrocarbon electrosynthesis technology include improving the voltage, current and FEs, as well as the lifetime, selectivity, and CD (rate) of the electrolyzer. The voltage efficiency of a CO2 electrolyzer is primarily controlled by: (a) the kinetic overpotentials at the anode and cathode, (b) ohmic losses due to ion transport through the device, and (c) concentration overpotentials associated with [CO2] and pH gradients [11]. The selectivity is governed by the catalyst and local pH at the cathode.The type of ionomer membrane used is a critical factor determining many performance metrics. Conventionally there are two membrane types, acidic CEMs, such as Nafion, and basic AEMs (now widely commercially available, but less well developed). At the cathode GDE, basic conditions are needed to suppress the HER kinetics relative to the CO2RR on the electrocatalyst. Therefore many studies use AEMs to separate a basic catholyte, such as KOH, from the anode [51]. CO2, however, reacts with hydroxide to form carbonates which accumulate in the catholyte. At steady state and without the continuous consumption KOH, the pH of the catholyte decreases and (bi)carbonate eventually carries a substantial portion of the current, leading not only to a loss of CO2 with the O2 products but also the formation of a pH gradient across the device that induces a concentration (Nernst) overpotential [11].One way to reduce cross-over of (bi)carbonate is use a CEM [215]. At the anode, this requires precious-metal water-oxidation catalysts, like IrO2, that are stable in a locally acidic environment. The cathode electrocatalyst, however, must be separated spatially from the acidic membrane. This is because at low pH, the HER dominates over the CO2RR. A pH = 1 phosphate catholyte was recently used in conjunction with a CEM [215]. When 3 M KCl was added to the catholyte, the FE for CO2RR over HER increased, especially at high CD. The addition of non-buffering electrolyte likely increases the catholyte pH gradient, leading to a more-basic cathode environment that preferences the CO2RR. Relying on concentration polarization to control local pH, however, impacts the EE, adding ∼60 mV unit of ΔpH in the supporting electrolyte [11].Advances in science and technology to meet challengesBPMs offer a new way for CO2 electrolyzers to manage pH and reduce crossover of (bi)carbonate, neutral products, and other species [10, 216]. A BPM consists of an anion-exchange layer (AEL) and a cation exchange layer (CEL) with a water-dissociation (WD) catalyst in between the two (figure 31(C)). Under bias, water is dissociated, H2O → H+ + OH−, at the junction between the AEL and CEL and the generated ions are driven by a gradient in electrochemical potential out from the center of the BPM in opposite directions [212]. Historically, significant overpotentials were needed to drive WD in BPMs and they were limited to ∼100 mA cm−2; too low for electrolysis. Innovations in WD catalysis have changed this, with research BPMs operating at 3 A cm−2 while maintaining a locally basic anode and acidic cathode [217]. At 0.5 A cm−2 the loss due to water dissociation is only 100–200 mV.The use of the BPMs dramatically prohibits unwanted crossover of (bi)carbonate to the anode because of the high outward flux of H+ and OH−, and provides basic conditions for water oxidation allowing the use of earth-abundant catalysts. However, at the cathode, the H+ flux leaving the acidic membrane leads to a preference for HER over CO2RR. The cathode GDE must thus be separated from the membrane with an intervening neutral-to-basic electrolyte layer, leading to a pH gradient from the strong-acid CEL, across the electrolyte layer, to the cathode. This gradient induces a concentration overpotential loss. Recently, thin weak-acid CELs layers have been added to a Nafion CEL in a BPM as another strategy to increase the pH at the cathode, perhaps with less of a voltage penalty [218].There remains a tremendous need to better understand through modeling, experiment, and new precise BPM fabrication, the detailed interplay between the formation of pH gradients, electric-field gradients, ion selectivity, ion transport in the concentrated limit, and the steady-state operational voltage of BPM-based CO2 electrolyzers. Specific opportunities include:
tailoring of the local anode/cathode environment with ionomers with different pKa ranges (providing different internal pH values)building more-complex ionomer multilayers to effectively control ion transport and local pH leveraging the design of water dissociation and recombination layersunderstanding rigorously what the fundamental performance limits are and whether, with sufficient ionic conductivity and WD/water-recombination catalysis, the performance can approach the thermodynamic limit as is the case for PEM water electrolysisquantifying the role of coupled ion transport in ionomers in the relevant concentrated limit where, for example, outward flux of one ion (e.g. H+ or OH−) can retard inward flux of a minority ion even in the presence of a large driving forceprecise measurements of the electric field and ion concentration distributions in BPM electrolyzers at equilibrium and approaching steady state, showing where gradients in the electrochemical potential of H+ and OH− develop (and thus where the supplied free energy is consumed) [212], comparing with models, and guiding developmenta detailed understanding of the steady-state concentration profiles of supporting electrolyte and (bi)carbonate ions both in static and flow cells and how this influences the rate at which electrolytes must be replenished (which affects EE)a fundamental understanding of the chemistry and physics of WD and water-recombination catalysis in the BPM junction.
Concluding remarksBPMs and related more-complex membrane architectures offer unique strategies to manage H+, OH− and other ions in electrochemical systems. These properties have been exploited for decades in the electrodialysis field and now, with improved BPM voltage performance and currents, are allowing their use in electrolysis at practical CDs. Low-temperature CO2 electrolysis provides one area where BPMs may be critical in controlling ion cross over and managing local pH.AcknowledgmentsBipolar membrane work at the University of Oregon was funded by the Office of Naval Research Award No. N00014-20-1-2517, as well as by the US Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) under the Fuel Cell Technologies Office (FCTO) Award No. DE-EE0008841. Work on CO2 utilization was funded by the Liquid Sunlight Alliance under Award No. DE-SC0021266.21. What is the promise of multi cell stacks for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Csaba Janáky1,2 and Balázs Endrődi1
1 Department of Physical Chemistry and Materials Science Szeged, University of Szeged, Aradi square 1, Hungary
2 eChemicles ZrtStatusAs outlined in this Roadmap, electrochemical CO2R is gaining momentum not only in the research arena, but also on the industrial scene. High temperature CO2 electrolysis technologies (such as solid oxide CO2 electrolyzer cells) are excluded from our scope; since they are approaching maturity, with pilot scale devices installed worldwide [219]. Low temperature electrolyzer cells typically operate at temperatures below 100 °C, which allows the use of less expensive materials. Furthermore, their integration with renewable energy sources looks more straightforward, compared to their high-temperature counterparts. As detailed in section 19, many different cell configurations can be envisioned, and each of them faces different challenges with respect to scale-up. Constructing large size and multi-layer stacks is a common practice in both the fuel cell and water electrolysis fields; nonetheless, implementation of this concept to CO2 electrolyzers is in its infancy. At the same time, we are convinced that building stacks is the only viable option to scale up electrochemical CO2R to an industrially relevant level.The first multi cell stack was shown for systems employing liquid catholyte, focusing on formic acid as product [220]. A similar system was reported with 1000 cm2 size recently, with notable solar-to-chemical conversion efficiency, but very low CD [221]. Our group was the first to publish a zero-gap CO2 electrolyzer stack, which can operate with a pressurized CO2 gas feed, without the need for any liquid catholyte [222]. The flexibility of the presented design allows different connections between the cells regarding the distribution of the reactant CO2 gas (i.e. serial or parallel gas feed), see figure 32.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 32. The CO2 gas channel structure in an electrolyzer stack consisting of three layers in the parallel (left) and serial (right) connection configurations. BPP: bipolar plate; ACL: anode catalyst layer; GDE: gas diffusion electrode; GDL: gas diffusion layer; AEM: anion exchange membrane. Reprinted with permission from [222]. Copyright (2019) American Chemical Society.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
The layers are connected in series electrically, and therefore the stack voltage scales with the number of the cells. The FE and the CO2 conversion is calculated similarly to single-cell electrolyzers, by quantifying the formed products and applying Faraday's law. Calculating the EE (or more simply the voltage efficiency, Eo
product/Ecell for a single cell electrolyzer) of the electrolyzer stack is more complex, as would require measuring the individual cell voltages, and analyzing the formed products of each cell separately. We propose that a good estimate for the EE of the electrolyzer cells (for both the parallel and serial gas connections) is derived by using the overall product composition and the average cell voltage (stack voltage divided by the number of the electrolyzer cells).As there is no liquid layer between the electrodes, the cell stack resistance is minimized. The components being in intimate connection with each other is also the largest bottleneck of these devices. If any of the components (e.g. electrode, catalyst, membrane, cell framework) underperforms, that will limit the efficiency of the whole cell, as no buffering electrolyte solution is present. In our follow-up studies we have shown that such cell stacks can operate with pure water anolyte and simultaneously provides high partial CD (over 600 mA cm−2), low cell voltage (−3.0 V), high conversion efficiency (up to 40%), and high selectivity for CO production (over 90%) [201]. A similar concept was shown for ethylene production, with a FE of 78.7% for C2 products at a CD of 281 mA cm–2 [223]. Different academic and industrial actors have been also working with stacked designs recently, but the details of their setups have not been published yet [224–226].Current and future challengesTo drive CO2R in an economically feasible way, electrolyzer cell stacks must be developed, which operate at high (a) conversion rate, (b) EE, (c) selectivity, and (d) conversion efficiency. Notably, even though these four parameters together describe the overall performance of an electrolyzer cell, very seldom are all of these reported in the scientific literature. Ensuring similar performance (in terms of all metrics) for each cell within the stack is also demanding. To reach the MW power regime (this translates to thousands t CO2/year processing capability), scale-up efforts need to continue, both in terms of the size of a single cell, as well as the number of cells in the stacks. This exercise however, will bring new challenges related to fluid (both CO2 gas and water (vapor)) and heat management. In such electrolyzer stacks the temperature control is provided by the tempered anolyte, that must be evenly distributed within the stack, and within the electrolyzer cells despite the continuous bubble formation due to anodic OER. Introducing CO2 to large electrolyzer cells at one peripheral point results in a large concentration gradient within the cells (especially in the case of large conversion rates), that might lead to increased HER at certain areas of the cell. These processes also affect durability, especially related to precipitate formation in the cathode GDE and flooding [227]. Gas and liquid flow channel engineering and rational GDE design are both necessary to mitigate these issues. The lack of long-term studies, and standardized test protocols hinder the comparison among the different published data.Furthermore, cost reduction will be also critical for the successful industrialization. This concerns all components of the electrolyzer stack, ranging from the catalyst (e.g. how to replace Ir anode catalyst), through the MEA (e.g. new membranes and porous layers) to the structural components (e.g. bipolar plates). In addition to novel materials, mass production methods (e.g. roll-to-roll processing of CCMs or metal stamping of bipolar plates) need to replace the current manufacturing processes (e.g. spray coating and Computer Numerical Control milling). Finally, when moving beyond the 2e− reduction products (i.e. CO and HCOOH), it looks difficult to achieve selective formation of either gas or liquid phase products. Forming product mixtures will further complicate the internal design of both the GDE and the bipolar plates. CO2 is available as an industrial waste in large quantities in different gas mixtures. Feeding the electrolyzer cells/stacks with such gases will bring further technological challenges.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesMulti-physics modeling has been proven powerful for designing efficient fuel cells and PEM water electrolyzers. Similar studies are ongoing for CO2 electrolyzers that are expected to support technological developments. Furthermore, modeling the operation of complete electrolysis systems helps to identify the optimal process conditions, and to choose proper stack- and balance of plants components. The outcome of modeling has to be validated by experiments, where the community would certainly benefit from unified accelerated stress test protocols (similarly to the fuel cell and H2 generation fields). Considering the complexity of the test environments (i.e. the need for temperature, anode and cathode pressure, gas and liquid flow rates, cell voltage control as well as online product analysis), commercial test stations could also accelerate the development process, by allowing interlaboratory data comparison. With the continuously accumulating large amount of experimental data, machine learning will be increasingly implemented. Novel bipolar plate structures will allow better heat and fluid management. Composite materials will be increasingly used, along with polymer processing technologies. After understanding the role of materials properties and operational conditions on degradation effects will provide real-life feedback to the R&D community.
Concluding remarksIn our opinion, the parallel development of large electrolyzer stacks and fundamental studies on the activity/stability of the cell components is necessary for the industrialization of CO2R technologies. We envision a relatively straightforward path for HCOOH and CO generation (with and without using liquid catholyte, respectively). At the same time, synthesis of multicarbon products is challenging not only from the catalyst perspective (see section 17), but also from an engineering standpoint. Furthermore, alternative anode processes (resulting in high-value products) might also gain their foothold in the CO2R field [228], which again will necessitate extensive R&D on the applicable cell stacks. Finally, all key performance metrics need to be improved holistically, to successfully compete with the indirect CO2 valorization technologies (such as catalytic CO2 hydrogenation).AcknowledgmentsWe thank the funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant Nos. 716539 and 899747) and from the Hungarian 'Széchenyi 2020' program in the framework of GINOP-2.2.1-15-2017-00041 project.22. What is the future of electrochemical C–N bond formation?Marta C Figueiredo Chemical Engineering and Chemistry Department, Eindhoven University of Technology, PO Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands Eindhoven Institute of Renewable Energy Systems, PO Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The NetherlandsStatusAs CO2 is the cheapest source of carbon, one can think of an endless list of subtrates to react it with for the synthesis of high-value chemicals. Combining CO2 electrochemical reduction (CO2RR) with nitrogen-containing compounds (such as N2, nitrate, nitrite, or amines) is an extremely attractive to achieve C–N bonds and obtain green amides, such as urea. An additional benefit being that the proposed process make use of two abundant and cheap and, in some cases, waste substrates. In this section, I will briefly describe progress in this nascent field, where there is much ground to be gained from adjacent developments in electrochemical CO2R.Urea is an important fertilizer for agricultural production of food crop and due to the increasing world population, its production is expected to increase in the coming years. Currently, urea is synthesized through the reaction of NH3 and CO2 at elevated temperatures and pressures (150 °C–200 °C, 150–250 bar) and it is responsible for the usage of 80% of the global NH3. By its turn, NH3 is obtained via the Haber–Bosh process that consumes 2% of the annual world energy and has a carbon footprint of 1.5 tons of CO2 per ton of NH3 [229]. This makes the synthesis of urea a high energy demanding and 'very far from green' industrial process. In this context, the synthesis of urea via a direct electrochemical process from CO2 and nitrogen-containing compounds would be a game-changer (figure 33). It would not only valorize waste products but would also benefit from all the energy savings and environmental advantages of electrochemical technologies, such as ambient reaction conditions, easy scalability and most importantly, direct use of renewable electricity. Moreover, developments in the efficiency and selectivity of this reaction will also contribute to the understanding of C–N bond formation. This will open a new opportunity to enlarge the landscape of amides and carbamates that can be synthesized from CO2 and amine derivates/nitrogen sources (nitrate, nitrite, NO, or many amines or their derivatives) [230].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 33. Schematic diagram for urea electrosynthesis from CO2 and N2.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Current and future challengesFor the successful industrial electrocatalytic conversion of CO2 and N2 to urea we need to favor and optimize the formation of C–N bonds. The first barrier for the reaction is the high dissociation energies for N≡N (941 KJ mol−1) and the very stable C=O bond (806 KJ mol−1). These demanding energies make the activation of these molecules on the electrode surface very difficult, leading to high overpotentials and low efficiencies. Nitrogen electrochemical reduction reaction (NRR) has only been reported with promising FEs of around ∼78% in non-aqueous media via lithium mediated nitrogen reduction [231]. In aqueous media, two major problems are observed: the reported FE are low and most of these studies lack of reliability [232]. The highest FE values reported so far do not go above 10% at −0.25 V (vs RHE) [233]. Despite the challenges in N2 activation and quantification, the scientific community has been devoting some efforts to the development of measurement protocols that avoid false positives due to ammonia/ammonium from other sources than N2 [234].The situation is not very different for the electrochemical reduction of N2 and CO2 to urea. The reported FE are far from what would be desirable on a process with potential industrial applications, where CDs of at least 100 mA cm−2 are mandatory. Another challenge is to direct both CO2 and N2 towards a C–N bond, instead of preceding with separate reactions to NH3 and other Cn+ products. Moreover, the difficulties of accessing the origin of the NHx
intermediates make it difficult to attribute the origin of the C–N bond to N2.Yet, we have observed in the last decades how fast research can advance in unraveling electrocatalytic reactions and electrode properties. The increased power of physical characterization techniques such as imaging and spectroscopic methods that are now very commonly available in situ, allows us to gather essential information about the reactions at the electrode surface. This information can often be translated into the design of more active, stable and cheap catalytic materials. Hence, the biggest challenge for the electrochemical C–N bond formation is to unravel its mechanism, know important intermediates, and understand its dependence on surface orientation and composition. From the electrocatalytic perspective, the C–N bond has just started to receive attention. The pathway for development is still in its beginning and fundamental knowledge needs to be gathered.Advances in science and technology to meet challengesAlthough C–N bond formation from the electrochemical conversion of CO2 and N2 has just started to attract the attention of the scientific community, some interesting advances have been made in the last couple of years.One of the first attempts has been made by Chen et al [235]. By using PdCu alloy nanoparticles supported on TiO2 nanosheets the authors obtained urea at a formation rate of 3.36 mmol g−1 h−1 and a corresponding FE of 8.92% at −0.4 V vs RHE. It was shown that the efficiency is dependent on the metallic ratio between Pd and Cu, the support, and even the supporting electrolyte. By using in operando Synchrotron radiation FTIR and DFT the authors suggest that the presence of adsorbed N2 (*N2) can facilitate CO2R, and the reduced CO can further react with *N2 to form urea. The generation of intermediates (*NCON*) via activating N2 is thermodynamically and kinetically feasible, acting as the key factor for effective urea production. The high yield rate of urea is mainly derived from the mutual promotion between the NRR and the CO2RR and both optimized reaction pathways. Furthermore, the amount of CO needs to be well controlled, since the excessive formation of CO will occupy excessive adsorption sites and will, to some extent, inhibit the activation of N2 and CO2 [235]. Moreover, the authors report isotopic labeling and control experiments to evaluate the possibility of ammonia contaminations in the system. Both show that the formation of urea occurs in a surface confined reaction involving N2 and CO2 and it does not result from ammonia contaminants.Mott–Schottky heterostructural Bi–BiVO4 hybrids (5.91 mmol h−1 g−1 with a FE of 12.55% at @0.4 V vs RHE) [236] and a BiFeO3/BiVO4 heterojunctions (4.94 mmol h−1g−1 and FE of 17.18% at −0.4 V vs RHE) [237]—figure 34—have also been reported as electrocatalysts for the synthesis of urea from N2 and CO2. For these catalysts the authors have suggested that the adsorbed *N2 can promote CO2R to form CO, and then the generated CO will further react with *N2 to produce the desirable *NCON* intermediate via thermodynamically feasible electrochemical C–N coupling reaction. Despite the promising FE for urea, the authors do not show evidences that the experimentally observed NH3 is originated from N2 activation. In reports concerning C–N bonds formation from N2 activation, similar protocols as reported by Iriawan et al [234] should be followed to avoid false negatives.
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 34. (a) NH3 synthesis with N2 as the feed gas and (b) CO generation with CO2 as the feed gas at various potentials for BiFeO3/BiVO4 hybrids; (c) the urea yield rate and FEs, and (e) the corresponding product distribution of H2 (purple color), CO (cyan-blue color), NH3 (red color) and urea (blue color) for urea production with N2. Reproduced from [237]. CC BY 3.0.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
An interesting alternative to the use of N2 as a source of N is the use of nitrates and nitrites. Nitrates and nitrites are well-known contaminants of surface water and present lower dissociation energies and higher solubilities in water than N2. These properties make these compounds attractive candidates for use in the synthesis of urea with CO2 co-electrolysis. Materials such as TiO2/Nafion films [238] and oxygen vacancy-rich ZnO (ZnO-V) porous nanosheets [239] have been tested with encouraging FEs (40% and 26%, respectively). The reaction mechanism for urea electrosynthesis from nitrite seems to differ from the mechanism proposed when N2 is the nitrogen source. For the ZnO-V, it is suggested that the reaction proceeds via coupling of *NH2 and COOH* originated from (nitrite and CO2, respectively).Concluding remarksThe formation of C–N bond containing compounds from the electroreduction of CO2 and N2 (or other nitrogen-containing molecules) is still at its early stage. Nevertheless, the developments in the last couple of years are impressive: we went from a shy 8% FE to a more promising 20%–40%, depending on the starting nitrogen source. Further efforts should be devoted to a better understanding of the electrocatalytic formation of C–N bonds, as well as their dependence on surface sites, surface composition, reaction conditions, etc and avoid the existence of false positives. This might be challenging as we need to combine two complex reactions—CO2RR and NRR. However, this knowledge is crucial for the development of new and green production technologies for urea and other amines, that can have a significant impact on the transition to more sustainable chemical industry.23. How can we systematically discover new materials for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Xue Wang and Edward H Sargent Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 1A4, CanadaStatusThe electroreduction of carbon dioxide (CO2RR) to value-added chemicals and fuels provides an attractive route to store intermittent renewable energy sources. CO2RR systems include cathodes, anodes, membranes, reactant streams, and electrolytes, making up an electrolyzer [240]. To evaluate the economic feasibility of a CO2RR system, one must simultaneously consider product selectivity, CD, EE, stability, and the separation of product streams. The cathodic catalyst is a key factor determining product selectivity, overpotential, CD, and stability in a CO2RR system [241].A wide range of products ranging from C1 to C3—such as carbon monoxide (CO), formate, methane, methanol, ethylene, ethanol, acetate, and n-propanol—are produced in CO2RR. These are determined by the cathodic catalysts, taken together with conditions of electrolyte and applied reducing potential. In pioneering studies, Hori identified four distinct classes of metal electrodes for CO2RR: those producing C1–C3 products (Cu), producing mainly formate (Pd, Hg, Tl, In, Sn, and Cd), producing mainly CO (Au, Ag, Zn, Pd, and Ga); and producing mainly H2 (Ni, Fe, Pt, and Ti) [242]. Over the past decade, new classes of CO2RR catalysts continue to be discovered, including metal oxide derived catalysts, alloys, metal/carbon-based materials, MOFs, single-atom catalysts, and molecular catalysts [240, 241].Much effort has been invested of late to explore new CO2RR catalysts, and progress has been made in promoting the FE, CD, EE, and stability to the various desired products of CO2RR [177]. To bring CO2RR technology closer to practical relevance will require new catalysts that do even better against these performance metrics taken together [12].Current and future challengesToday, in implementing the challenging series of multiple sequential reductive steps along CO2RR pathways, one incurs a high overpotential, corresponding to a low EE [240]. This has driven the field to seek to decrease overpotential, including by operating in extremely alkaline conditions. For instance, the onset potential for reducing CO2 to ethylene decreased by 0.3 V when the electrolyte was switched from 1 M KOH to 10 M KOH [243]. However, highly concentrated alkaline electrolyte leads much CO2 to turn to carbonate, resulting in a low CO2 utilization efficiency [215]. New approaches to reducing CO2 under low overpotential (e.g. <0.2 V) are required.Theoretical studies have put focus onto pathways and key intermediates toward C1 and C2 products [240, 244]. The pathways/intermediates are many, and this increases the complexity of mechanistic investigations. There remains debate over detailed C2 routes and in general a lack of clarity on the path to C3. This curtails the rational design of new CO2 materials that are highly selective to specific C2+ products.The important direction is to seek high FE to one specific CO2RR product, combined simultaneously with high CD. Since proton is involved in the CO2R process to generate C1–C3 products, the HER is a competing reaction. The wide spectrum of C1–C3 products also compete with one another in CO2RR [240]. Nevertheless, experimentally, recent progress has been seen: the FE to certain CO2RR products at commercially relevant CDs (>100 mA cm−2) have registered impressive advances, such as CO (FE > 90%), formate (FE > 80%), ethylene (FE > 80%), and methane (FE > 80%) [245–248]. Taking this the rest of the way to CO2RR catalysts that generate a single specific C2+ product with high FE (e.g. >80%) at high reaction rate (e.g. >100 mA cm−2) remains a challenge, but the field is progressing in this direction.Stability is simultaneously an imperative metric for CO2RR electrocatalysts. To maintain performance under long-term operation, this will require catalysts whose structure and composition reach a stable configuring over the course of tens of thousands of hours operating under CO2RR. To date, CO2 to CO has achieved 1000 h stability, maintaining a stable FE above 90% at 200 mA cm−2 [245]. For other CO2RR products, new CO2RR materials need to be developed to achieve consistently high performing operation.Advances in science and technology to meet CO2RR challengesAs noted above, the rational design of new CO2RR materials highly selective to specific C2+ products will rely on ever-deepening physicochemical understanding of reaction mechanism. Operando and in situ characterization techniques facilitate investigations of reaction mechanisms in CO2RR. Operando x-ray absorption near edge fine structure and x-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopies probe valence states and the coordination environment of catalysts during CO2RR [34]. Operando Raman and infrared spectroscopy enable one to follow intermediates and increase mechanistic understanding of CO2RR [34, 249].Computational approaches enable systematic exploration of possible pathways and the key intermediates on the path to C2+ products. Uniting DFT with machine learning offers to accelerate CO2RR material screening ab initio for specific desired products (figure 35) [247]. The recent exploitation of high throughput experimental methods may promote efficient screening for CO2RR [250, 251].
Zoom In
Zoom Out
Reset image size
Figure 35. Computational screening for Cu and Cu based compounds. (a) Two-dimensional map of the rate of CO2R as a function of CO adsorption energy and H adsorption energy through DFT calculations. (b) Two-dimensional map of the selectivity towards CO2R as a function of CO adsorption energy and H adsorption energy through DFT calculations. (c) t-SNE representation of adsorption sites (∼4000) where DFT calculations are carried out with Cu-containing alloys. (d) Representative coordination sites for the clusters labeled as 1–5 in (c). Reprinted by permission from Springer Nature Customer Service Centre GmbH: Springer Nature, Nature [247], Copyright 2020.Download figure: Standard image
High-resolution image
Concluding remarksDiscovering new CO2RR materials needs to meet the simultaneous requirements of promoting FE, CD, EE, and stability towards practical application, an effort that will rely on ever-improving fundamental understanding of reaction mechanism in CO2RR. Advances in computational approaches and operando techniques facilitate mechanistic picture development jointly from theory and experiment, helping to further the rational design of CO2RR materials. All this must be united with understanding of the role of electrolytes, anodes, membranes, and the electrolyzer system.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada and the Ontario Research Fund—Research Excellence Program for support.Data availability statementNo new data were created or analyzed in this study.
Show References
Please wait… references are loading.
AbstractIntroduction1. What are the industrial priorities in the commercialization of CO2 electrolyzers?2. What is the future of CO2 capture for CO2 utilization?3. What are the ideal CO2 reduction (CO2R) products for closing the carbon cycle?4. What guidelines must we have for product detection and benchmarking?5. What does DFT tell us about electrochemical CO2 reduction (CO2R)?6. Modeling transport effects in CO2 electrolysis7. Mechanistic insight into the electrocatalytic reduction of CO2 via operando spectroscopy and microscopy methods8. Understanding the interplay between electrolytes and electrode-mediated reactions via in-situ spectroscopies9. What can in situ spectroscopy tell us about adsorbed intermediates?10. What can electrochemical mass spectrometry (EMS) tell us about reaction pathways in CO2 reduction (CO2R)?11. What is the potential of metal doped carbon for CO2R?12. What is the potential for molecular catalysts for CO2R?13. How does the nitrogenase enzyme enable C–C coupling?14. What is the future of single crystal studies in CO2 reduction (CO2R)?15. What are the open questions in the mechanistic understanding of CO2 reduction (CO2R)?16. How to engineer surfaces to tailor reactivity?17. How can we nanostructure Cu towards optimal CO2RR selectivity?18. How to optimize GDEs for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?19. What are the challenges to achieving steady state high CO2 utilization?20. How might bipolar membranes (BPMs) optimize CO2R electrolyzer efficiency?21. What is the promise of multi cell stacks for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?22. What is the future of electrochemical C–N bond formation?23. How can we systematically discover new materials for CO2 reduction (CO2R)?Data availability statementReferences
Back to top
10.1088/2515-7655/ac7823
You may also like
Journal articles
Roadmap on Li-ion battery manufacturing research
2021 roadmap for sodium-ion batteries
Virgo detector characterization and data quality: results from the O3 run
2021 Roadmap: electrocatalysts for green catalytic processes
2023 roadmap for potassium-ion batteries
Roadmap for a sustainable circular economy in lithium-ion and future battery technologies
Close menu
Search
Primary search
Search all IOPscience content
Search
Journals
Journals list
Browse more than 100 science journal titles
Subject collections
Read the very best research published in IOP journals
Publishing partners
Partner organisations and publications
Open access
IOP Publishing open access policy guide
IOP Conference Series
Read open access proceedings from science conferences worldwide
Books
Publishing Support
Login
IOPscience login / Sign Up
Close filtersundefined