Electrochemical interfaces for chemical and biomolecular separations
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359029420300340
JavaScript is disabled on your browser.
Please enable JavaScript to use all the features on this page.
Skip to main contentSkip to article
Access through your institutionView Open ManuscriptPurchase PDFOther access optionsSearch ScienceDirectArticle previewAbstractIntroductionSection snippetsReferences (132)Cited by (33)Recommended articles (6)Current Opinion in Colloid & Interface ScienceVolume 46, April 2020, Pages 77-93Electrochemical interfaces for chemical and biomolecular separationsAuthor links open overlay panelXiao SuShow moreAdd to MendeleyShareCitehttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.cocis.2020.04.005Get rights and contentAbstractThe design of molecularly selective interfaces can lead to efficient electrochemically-mediated separation processes. The fast growing development of electroactive materials has resulted in new electroresponsive adsorbents and membranes, with enhanced selectivity, higher uptake capacities, and improved energy performance. Here, we review progress on the interfacial design for electrochemical separations, with a focus on chemical and biological applications. We discuss the development of new electrode materials and the underlying mechanisms for selective molecular binding, highlighting areas of growing interest such as metal recovery, waste recycling, gas purification, and protein separations. Finally, we emphasize the need for integration between molecular level interface design and electrochemical engineering for the development of more efficient separation processes. We envision that electrochemical separations can play a key role towards the electrification of the chemical industry and contribute towards new approaches for process intensification.Graphical abstractDownload : Download high-res image (204KB)Download : Download full-size imageIntroductionThe interaction of charged and non-charged species with electrified interfaces has been a topic of continuous interest for colloid and interface science, for areas ranging from electrocatalysis [1], electrochemical sensing [2], energy storage [3], and electrokinetic phenomena [4], to dynamic control and self-assembly at electrode surfaces [5, 6, 7]. Recently, there has been a growing interest in electrochemical technologies for separations, spurred in part by the need for reducing energy consumption in separation processes, and in part by advances in functional materials and supramolecular chemistry [8,9]. Electrochemical approaches offer a modular alternative to traditional thermal or chemical swing–based separations. In the current perspective review, we highlight emerging areas of interest for electroseparations, including selective removal of ions, recovery of value-added products, chemical processing, and biomolecular purification.The introduction of field-assisted methods to separations offer new handles for tunable control, and can lead to a reduction of solvent as well as chemical waste. Electrochemical approaches allow for the regulation of interfacial affinity based solely on electrical potential and current. For example, operational advantages can be clearly seen over traditional ion-exchange adsorption processes, where the regeneration step often results in the loss of valuable product. Electrochemically modulating the ion-exchange process can lead to the complete elimination of chemical additives and secondary pollution, while helping maximizing column usage. Similarly, electrokinetic-based mechanisms offer a continuous separation alternative to adsorption swing, with commercial examples including electrodialysis and electrodeionization technologies [10].While recent reviews have focused heavily on deionization processes based on the electric double-layer [11,12], there has been a growing shift towards the electrochemical recovery of valuable compounds for the chemical industry [9,13, 14, 15, 16∗]. Product purity can be an important metric alongside removal efficiency, especially in pharmaceutical and value-added chemical manufacturing. Thus, to achieve molecular selectivity, interfacial design is critical for the development of efficient electrochemical separations. The goal becomes to remove the minority ion or molecule from a stream of excess inert or competing species, whether in the liquid or gas phase. Thus, there is a pressing need for the discovery of new materials with selective binding mechanisms, such as hydrogen-bonding, charge-transfer, hydrophobic interactions, and intercalation, which can then be leveraged for a broad range of important chemical, environmental, and biological applications (see Figure 1). A recent report by the U.S. National Academies on a ‘Research Agenda for Transformation Separation Science’ [17] has highlighted the need for fundamental understanding of interfacial interactions for separation processes, especially the complex intermolecular phenomena governing these operations for the recovery of dissolved species in dilute streams.Molecular engineering often refers to the ability to tune chemical systems at an atomistic level to create desired structure–function relationships, and has gradually become a key concept to the development of electrochemically mediated processes. Functionalization of porous electrodes has become a promising way to increase electrochemical performance and impart selectivity to otherwise nonspecific surfaces [9,18]. To achieve the capture of a minority ion, electroactive polymers and Faradaic crystals can be coated onto conductive substrates to act as selective adsorbents. Close understanding of the physical chemistry behind these interfacial ion–electrode interactions is required at multiple scales, ranging from the electronic structure to nanoscale morphology, whereas at the same time carrying out judicious electrochemical engineering at a process level [15].Redox-active processes, in which electron transfer changes the oxidation state of a chemical species, are a promising platform for selective separations, as oxidation and reduction of active sites can dramatically enhance affinity. Redox-polymers have become a natural avenue to translate concepts from homogeneous supramolecular recognition onto adsorption at heterogeneous platforms [9,14,19, 20, 21]. In a similar vein, crystalline redox-active systems have enabled the selective binding of various cations modulated solely by potential [22, 23, 24], with the host-unit being determined by the metal–ligand structure, which in turn can be modularly tuned by solvothermal synthesis [25]. In addition, redox processes allow for the control and tunability of the voltage/current, bringing significant energetic benefits and preventing the occurrence of parasitic side-reactions [16,25]. At the same time, a range of electrokinetic systems are being developed that allow for efficient continuous separation of ions and charged particles.The current review presents recent advances in electrochemically driven separations, with a special emphasis for areas of interest to the chemical and biochemical industry. The direct relationship between designing the underlying separation mechanisms and the end-user application will be emphasized throughout (Figure 1). By providing an up-to-date perspective, we expect to broaden the interest in the topic of electrochemical separations and promote the integration between tools from colloid and interface science, materials chemistry, and electrochemical engineering, all which are critical for electrochemical separations to become a feasible industrial alternative in the future.Section snippetsApplications of electrochemical separationsHere, we have selected topics of interest in electrochemical separations for chemical and biomolecular applications to highlight new challenges in selective extraction and purification. Selective electrochemical approaches have not only been used for the separation of ionic species, such as lithium or heavy metals but also neutral compounds such as organic aromatic species, gas phase molecules, and even colloidal particles such as clays and proteins. The continued development of newFuture opportunities and outlookAs seen throughout the current review, there has been growing interest and diversification of electrochemical approaches for separation processes. Adsorption-based systems can now be adapted to rely on electrical field regeneration, and many permselective and chromatographic systems have steadily been electrified too. Significant strides within the field have been possible through the close combination of electrochemical process design with molecular control of the interfaces and dynamics. TheConflict of interest statementNothing declared.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) under CBET Grant# 1942971, and the startup funds from the University of Illinois, Urbana–Champaign and the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. The author would like to thank Prof. Richard Alkire and Prof. T. Alan Hatton for valuable feedback on the manuscript and Stephen Cotty for help with the graphical abstract.G.Q. Lu et al.Heterogeneous electrocatalysis: a core field of interfacial scienceCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2000)D.Y. Zheng et al.Application of graphene in elctrochemical sensingCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2015)W. Yang et al.Graphene in supercapacitor applicationsCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2015)M.Z. Bazant et al.Induced-charge electrokinetic phenomenaCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2010)M. Kunitake et al.Electrochemistry in bicontinuous microemulsions based on control of dynamic solution structures on electrode surfacesCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2016)P.R. Van TasselPolyelectrolyte adsorption and layer-by-layer assembly: electrochemical controlCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2012)D.C. Prieve et al.2-D assembly of colloidal particles on a planar electrodeCurr Opin Colloid Interface Sci(2010)H. Yoon et al.Review of concepts and applications of electrochemical ion separation (EIONS) processSepar Purif Technol(2019)S.-Y. Pan et al.Electrokinetic desalination of brackish water and associated challenges in the water and energy nexusEnviron Sci J Integr Environ Res: Water Research & Technology(2018)X. Su et al.Electrosorption at functional interfaces: from molecular-level interactions to electrochemical cell designPhys Chem Chem Phys(2017)X. Su et al.Asymmetric Faradaic systems for selective electrochemical separationsEnergy Environ Sci(2017)A research Agenda for transforming separation science(2019)L. Chen et al.Water-mediated cation intercalation of open-framework indium hexacyanoferrate with high voltage and fast kineticsNat Commun(2016)T. Murakami et al.Electrochemical window of a LiCl-KCl-CsCl meltElectrochem Solid State Lett(2005)M.L. Saboungi et al.Solubility products of metal sulfides in molten-salts - measurements and calculations for iron sulfine (FeS) in LiCl-KCl eutectic compositionJ Electrochem Soc(1978)Y. Castrillejo et al.Use of electrochemical techniques for the study of solubilization processes of cerium–oxide compounds and recovery of the metal from molten chloridesJ Electroanal Chem(2002)J. Serp et al.Electroseparation of actinides from lanthanides on solid aluminum electrode in LiCl-KCl eutectic meltsJ Electrochem Soc(2005)Y. Ito et al.Non-conventional electrolytes for electrochemical applicationsElectrochim Acta(2000)T. Iida et al.Electrochemical formation of Sm-Co alloys by codeposition of Sm and Co in a molten LiCl-KCI-SMCl3-CoCl2 systemElectrochim Acta(2003)T. Iida et al.Electrochemical formation of Sm-Ni alloy films in a molten LiCl-KCl-SmCl3 systemElectrochim Acta(2001)V.E.O. Santos et al.Chemical and electrochemical recycling of the nickel, cobalt, zinc and manganese from the positives electrodes of spent Ni–MH batteries from mobile phonesJ Power Sources(2012)R.D. Armstrong et al.Selective electrodeposition of metals from simulated waste solutionsJ Appl Electrochem(1996)M. Medina-Sanchez et al.Enhanced detection of quantum dots labeled protein by simultaneous bismuth electrodeposition into microfluidic channelElectrophoresis(2016)W. Smith et al.Electrowinning/electrostripping and electrodialysis processes for the recovery and recycle of metals from plating rinse solutionsSepar Sci Technol(1997)V.K. Varentsov et al.Electrodeposition of metals and their oxides on electrochemically modified three-dimensional carbon nanotubesProtect Met Phys Chem Surface(2017)R.M. Gould et al.Effect of multiple reactions on metal deposition in flow-through porous electrodesJ Electrochem Soc(1979)X. Su et al.Electrochemically-mediated selective capture of heavy metal chromium and arsenic oxyanions from waterNat Commun(2018)K. Kim et al.Asymmetric redox-polymer interfaces for electrochemical reactive separations: synergistic capture and conversion of arsenicAdv Mater(2020)Y.-X. Liu et al.Electrochemical removal of chromium from aqueous solutions using electrodes of stainless steel nets coated with single wall carbon nanotubesJ Hazard Mater(2011)L. Talens Peiró et al.Lithium: sources, production, uses, and recovery outlookJOM(2013)G. Harper et al.Recycling lithium-ion batteries from electric vehiclesNature(2019)H. Kanoh et al.Electrochemical recovery of lithium ions in the aqueous phaseSepar Sci Technol(1993)M.A. Lilga et al.Cesium separation using electrically switched ion exchangeSepar Purif Technol(2001)M.E. SussSize-based ion selectivity of micropore electric double layers in capacitive deionization electrodesJ Electrochem Soc(2017)S. Schlumpberger et al.Scalable and continuous water deionization by shock electrodialysisEnviron Sci Technol Lett(2015)R.C. Alkire et al.Electrosorption of organics on flow-through porous-electrodesJ Electrochem Soc(1981)R.S. Eisinger et al.Electrosorption of beta-naphthol on graphiteJ Electrochem Soc(1980)V. Albergamo et al.Removal of polar organic micropollutants by pilot-scale reverse osmosis drinking water treatmentWater Res(2019)X. Su et al.Redox-electrodes for selective electrochemical separationsAdv Colloid Interface Sci(2017)M.E. Suss et al.Water desalination via capacitive deionization: what is it and what can we expect from it?Energy Environ Sci(2015)S. Porada et al.Review on the science and technology of water desalination by capacitive deionizationProg Mater Sci(2013)J. Landon et al.Progress and outlook for capacitive deionization technologyCurr Opin Chem Eng(2019)C.Y. Zhang et al.Faradaic reactions in capacitive deionization (CDI) - problems and possibilities: a reviewWater Res(2018)R. Chen et al.Capacitive deionization and electrosorption for heavy metal removalEnviron Sci J Integr Environ Res: Water Research & Technology(2020)R.D.A. HudsonFerrocene polymers: current architectures, syntheses and utilityJ Organomet Chem(2001)X.W. Mao et al.Metallocene/carbon hybrids prepared by a solution process for supercapacitor applicationsJ Mater Chem(2013)M. Gallei et al.Recent advances in immobilized ferrocene-containing polymersB. Kong et al.New faces of porous Prussian blue: interfacial assembly of integrated hetero-structures for sensing applicationsChem Soc Rev(2015)J. Kiener et al.Activated carbon/transition metal (Ni, in, Cu) hexacyanoferrate nanocomposites for cesium adsorptionMaterials(2019)K.-J. Tan et al.An asymmetric iron-based redox-active system for electrochemical separation of ions in aqueous mediaAdv Funct Mater(2020)View more referencesIon selective electrosorption by two pseudocapacitive intercalating nanocomposite electrodes2023, DesalinationShow abstractTwo ion intercalating electrodes were in an ion selectivity study for capacitive deionization (CDI). One has MXene (Ti3C2Tx) and reduced graphene oxide (rGO) as MG. The second involved rod-shaped NTO (Na8Ti5O14) and rGO as NG. An ion selectivity study of mono- and divalent cations in binary and ternary solutions was conducted. The results suggested that the ion selectivity was influenced by the hydrated radius, the valence state of the ions, and the intrinsic charge of the electrode materials. In a binary solution, both electrodes exhibited higher selectivity for K+ ions over Li+ ions due to their smaller hydration radius. In a ternary solution, the order of ion selectivity was Ca2+ ≈ Mg2+ > Li+ and Ca2+ ≈ Mg2+ > K+ respectively. The NG electrode demonstrated a higher selectivity for divalent ions over monovalent ions (Mg2+/Li+ and Ca2+/Li+) due to stronger intrinsic negative charge. The specific adsorption capacities (SACs) of MG electrode with well-organized interlayer spaces were found to be higher than NG electrode as 105, 130, 122 mg/g for MG, and 99, 102, 90 mg/g for NG. A pseudo-second-order model was found to describe the kinetics of diffusion-controlled intercalation. These findings are valuable for developing selective electrosorption water treatment systems.Electrochemical cell design and performance evaluation of polyvinyl ferrocene/carbon nanotube electrodes for selective formate separation2023, Separation and Purification TechnologyShow abstractSelective ion separation is a fundamental challenge with applications ranging from the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals & industrial salts to water desalination. In particular, the separation of formate, a primary product of electrochemical carbon dioxide reduction, has attracted attention not only to reduce carbon emissions and energy costs but to provide new routes to value-added chemicals. In the present study, selective formate separation from an aqueous solution is demonstrated using an electrochemical flow cell with symmetric redox-active polyvinyl ferrocene electrodes. An electrosorption system equipped with an electrosorption cell, inline conductivity, and pH sensors was constructed to provide real-time measurements of the formate adsorption performance in continuous flow mode while varying operating conditions such as the flow rate, cell voltage, and electrolyte concentration. These parameters were optimized using a Box–Behnken experimental design to improve the formate adsorption selectivity. The flow cell results showed a selectivity higher than 6.0 toward the removal of formate in an electrolyte containing a 30-fold excess of perchlorate under optimal operation conditions (i.e., 0.5 mL/min flow rate, 1.0 V, and 15 mM electrolyte concentration). The performance of the flow cell was also tested using a solution that contained different liquid CO2 reduction products, and formate separation was achieved. The results suggest that the proper design of the electrochemical cell and efficient operation of the flow platform pave the way for scaling up the technology for selective formate separation.Ultrasound-promoted preparation of polyvinyl ferrocene-based electrodes for selective formate separation: Experimental design and optimization2022, Ultrasonics SonochemistryShow abstractThe selective separation of ions is a major technological challenge having far-ranging impacts from product separation in electrochemical production of base chemicals from CO2 to water purification. In recent years, ion-selective electrochemical systems leveraging redox-materials emerged as an attractive platform based on their reversibility and remarkable ion selectivity. In the present study, we present an ultrasound-intensified fabrication process for polyvinyl ferrocene (PVF)–functionalized electrodes in a carbon nanotube (CNT) matrix for selective electro-adsorption of formate ions. To this end, a response surface methodology involving the Box–Behnken design with three effective independent variables, namely, PVF to CNT ratio, sonication duration, and ultrasonic amplitude was applied to reach the maximum formate adsorption efficiency. The fabricated electrodes were characterized using cyclic voltammetry, X-ray diffraction, Raman spectroscopy, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). SEM images revealed that an optimized ultrasonic amplitude and sonication time provided remarkable improvements in electrode morphology. Through a sedimentation study, we qualitatively demonstrate that the main optimized conditions improved PVF/CNT dispersion stability, consequently providing the highest number of active surface sites for adsorption and the highest adsorption efficiency. The highest percentage of active electrode surface sites and the maximum adsorption efficiency were 97.8 and 90.7% respectively at a PVF/CNT ratio of 3, ultrasonication time of one hour, and 50% ultrasonic amplitude.Synthesis and covalent immobilization of redox-active metallopolymers for organic phase electrochemistry2022, PolymerShow abstractRedox-active metallopolymers are promising stimuli-responsive platforms for a range of applications including sensing, energy storage, and selective separations. In particular, heterogeneously-functionalized metallopolymers can modulate the capture and release of target molecules, driven by redox electron-transfer. However, prior metallopolymer-functionalized electrodes have been fabricated by non-covalent methods, and tailored for aqueous phase applications. As such, despite the existing potential for heterogeneous applications in organic phase, there are significant constraints to the stability of metallopolymers in organic solvents, including high solubility in solvents such as chloroform or tetrahydrofuran. We propose the immobilization of thiol-functionalized redox-active metallopolymers on metallic surfaces as a facile way to enhance stability and cyclability in organic media, and thus broaden the applicability of redox-metallopolymers for organic phase applications. We explore the anionic polymerization of metal-containing monomers vinylferrocene (VFc) and ferrocenyldimethylsilane (FS), and their thiol end-functionalization by living anionic polymerization strategies. PFS and PVFc with molar masses ranging from 1800 to 49900 g mol−1 and 2900 to 6300 g mol−1 respectively were prepared with a segment of poly(ethylene sulfide), as characterized by size-exclusion chromatography, NMR spectroscopy, MALDI/ToF, thermogravimetry, and elemental analysis. Both metallopolymers were immobilized on gold substrates by a grafting-to protocol, with demonstrated redox-responsiveness by electrochemical control. In the case of immobilized PVFc, operando electrochemical testing demonstrated the stable and reversible electrochemical cycling capabilities (>74% maximum current retained after 100 oxidation/reduction cycles) in several organic solvents including chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, ethanol, methanol, acetonitrile, and acetone. Immobilized PFS was stable in chloroform, with a 83% maximum current retained after 100 oxidation/reduction cycles. We envision future applications of these covalently immobilized metallopolymers for a broad range of fields from selective separations to sensing and energy storage.Electrochemical separation of organic acids and proteins for food and biomanufacturing2022, Chemical Engineering Research and DesignCitation Excerpt :For instance, ED systems often suffer from membrane fouling and extensive use of high-priced membranes (Grossman and Sonin, 1973; Tongwen, 2002). For electrosorption-based systems, there remains the need in understanding the complex binding interactions between electrodes and target species, especially biomacromolecules and active sites, and in applying these systems for practical downstream processes (Su, 2020a). Here we present opportunities and challenges for future research in electrochemical separations for bioprocessing and food manufacturing.Show abstractOver the past decades, the rapid population growth coupled with increased awareness towards nutrition has driven the demand for organic acids (e.g., carboxylates) and proteins, through pharmaceutical and food products. Close to 50–70% of the overall production cost of organic acids and proteins comes from separation processes during manufacturing. Recently, electrochemically-mediated separations have gained significant attention as a sustainable solution for lowering chemical consumption and achieving process intensification. Here, we review progress in electrochemical processes for the recovery of organic acids and proteins, in food and biomanufacturing contexts. We highlight aspects of the electrochemical engineering of these systems, selection of electrode materials, and discuss the underlying separation mechanisms. We emphasize the need for understanding molecular level selectivity coupled with engineering design, for broadening the applicability of electrochemical platforms for selective bioproduct purification. On the long term, we envision electrochemical separations as a sustainable and competitive process for the recovery of value-added molecules in food and biomanufacturing.Electrochemical remediation of perfluoroalkyl substances from water2022, Electrochimica ActaCitation Excerpt :Therefore, plasma-based treatment can be an impactful, emerging electrically-driven approach for large-scale PFAS remediation. While electrochemical separation and oxidation processes present advantages over conventional water treatment methods (i.e., reversible sorption, improved selectivity, modularity, and scalability) [44], these techniques do not offer a holistic solution on their own. For example, although some EAOPs have shown superior performance for the degradation of perfluorinated substances [8,59,124], the large operation costs due to high energy consumption and restricted mass transfer limitations prevent their implementation for large scale applications [8].Show abstractOrganic anthropogenic pollutants such as per- and polyfluorinated alkyl substances (PFAS) present a severe threat to bodies of water and neighboring ecosystems, due to their toxicity and recalcitrance to current treatment methods. PFAS have highly stable carbon-fluorine bonds that contribute to the persistence of these compounds in the environment. Conventional separation methods based on membranes or adsorption materials can often be inefficient at targeting PFAS, or require significant energy or chemical consumption for regeneration. . Electrochemical approaches offer a sustainable and potentially energy-efficient solution to PFAS capture and degradation, with rapid development of new electrode materials and electrochemically-driven processes for the separation and reaction of these compounds. Here, we review electrochemical approaches for PFAS removal and degradation, including electrosorption and electrochemical oxidation/reduction processes. In particular, we discuss investigations using porous carbon electrodes and functional polymers for PFAS electrosorption, as well as electrodes used for PFAS defluorination such as boron-doped diamond. Finally, we present a perspective on emerging topics in electrochemical PFAS remediation, such as the integration of electrochemical reaction and separations, and the urgent need for remediation studies of short-chain PFAS.View all citing articles on ScopusResearch articleA liquid redox sulfur recovery process based on heteropoly molybdophosphate (HPMo) with electricity generationChemical Engineering Journal, Volume 241, 2014, pp. 60-65Show abstractIn this study, an innovative H2S capture technology based on heteropoly molybdophosphate (PMo12VIO403-, HPMo) was proposed. The proposed system, consisting of an absorber and a fuel cell units, captures gaseous H2S and oxidizes it to elemental sulfur in the absorber compartment, and in the fuel cell unit converts the reduced absorbent molybdenum blue (PMo2VMo10VIO405-, Mo-blue) back to HPMo producing electricity. pH, which is known to affect the molecular structure of HPMo and thereby the catalytic activity, was indeed found to be a governing factor for the process performance. During absorption of gaseous H2S into HPMo, the efficiency increased with pH from 0.8 to 5.0, though almost all of H2S was removed even at pH 0.8 (>95% in 2 h) as long as the absorbent was provided at a sufficient level. During oxidation, the lower pH the solution was, the faster sulfide oxidation kinetic was exhibited, likely because more HPMo molecules existed as the Keggin structure, which is known as a good catalyst. For continuous operation, the resulting product of the absorption and sulfide oxidation, Mo-blue, must be subsequently regenerated and this was done by adopting the fuel cell principle: The reduced absorbent was consumed as a fuel with electricity generation and so doing it was oxidized and recycled. Cyclic voltammetry test showed that only the Keggin-type HPMo possessed a noticeable electrochemical redox activity. At pH 0.8, in which Keggin-structured molecule was supposedly dominant, the fuel cell at 20 °C produced the maximum power density of 0.764 mW cm−2 without any electrochemical catalyst. At this condition, more than 95% of original dark-blue color of Mo-blue disappeared in 3 h. We tend to believe that the proposed system has several advantages desirable for field implementation, such as sulfur recovery, electricity generation, and long-term stability of the absorbent.Research articlePerformance of direct alkaline sulfide fuel cell without sulfur deposition on anodeInternational Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 39, Issue 13, 2014, pp. 7142-7146Show abstractThe paper reports the use of alkaline sulfide as a fuel with advantages of low cost, easy storage and transportation, and high electrochemical activity. The fuel cell fueled with alkaline sulfide, named direct alkaline sulfide fuel cell (DASFC), oxidizes sulfide to sulfur oxyanion without electrochemical catalyst, allowing not only to remove H2S but also to fully recover energy stored in H2S as electricity. In this study, particular attention was paid to systematic investigation of the effects of various operating parameters on cell performance, such as NaOH concentration, sulfide concentration, temperature, and electro-catalyst. Higher alkalinity and sulfide concentration of the anolyte were found to lead to higher power output, recording maximum power density of 10.69 mW cm−2 at 1.0 M sulfide, 3.0 M NaOH, and 80 °C, which greatly increased up to 25.86 mW cm−2 with the aid of Pt/C. During discharge, DASFC with higher alkaline anolyte exhibited higher current density profile, resulting in more oxidized sulfur oxyanions to be dominant. In the SEM analysis, the anode surface after discharge did not show any distinctive change from the original state, indicating that the anode of DASFC is free from sulfur deposition even at ambient temperature. Considering electricity generation, recovery of sulfur oxyanion, and long-term stability, we tend to believe that DASFC is one sustainable, promising way of tackling H2S problem.Research articleRedox-mediated flux control in functional paperPolymer, Volume 98, 2016, pp. 429-436Show abstractIt is still a challenge to control the structure and functionality of a porous material in a way that its properties can be changed by external triggers. To this end, the combination of porous paper substrates with redox-responsive ferrocene-containing polymer brushes is a promising approach. Here, surface-initiated Atom Transfer Radical Polymerization (SI-ATRP) protocols for a ferrocenyl methacrylate derivative, i.e. (2-(methacryloyloxy)ethyl ferrocenecarboxylate) (FcMA), were applied. The redox-responsiveness of the polymer-modified paper substrate was shown by chemical means and Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM), while X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) revealed insights into the oxidation states of the ferrocene moieties. The control over the oxidation state enabled the precise control over the material's wettability as shown by contact angle (CA) measurements and capillary rise tests. Thus, these redox-mediated functional papers open a variety of applications for microfluidic devices.Research articleAdvances and challenges in metal ion separation from waterTrends in Chemistry, Volume 3, Issue 10, 2021, pp. 819-831Show abstractTechnologies for selective metal ion separation from water and wastewater are currently attracting strong research interest as a pathway to greater sustainability. The chemistry of metal ion separation processes is critical for understanding the mechanisms of selectivity and making the technologies viable. This paper discusses current advances and challenges in metal ion separation technologies from chemical points of view and proposes how they should be approached in the future.Research articleEnhanced monovalent over divalent cation selectivity with polyelectrolyte multilayers in membrane capacitive deionization via optimization of operational conditionsDesalination, Volume 522, 2022, Article 115391Show abstractIn this work, we tuned the ion selectivity of a polyelectrolyte multilayer (PEM)-coated, cation-exchange membrane (CMX) in a membrane capacitive deionization (MCDI) process by carefully studying different operational modes, namely constant voltage (CV) and constant current (CC). The monovalent cation selectivity and its time-dependent behavior were monitored at different voltage and current values. Upon optimizing the current density (10 A/m2) and the number of polyelectrolyte bilayers (5.5) on the CMX membranes, a time-independent and nearly full monovalent cation selectivity was obtained for various feed solutions, provided a polycation-terminated PEM was applied. Furthermore, the selectivity values of several commercially available cation-exchange membranes were tested under the optimized conditions and compared with CMX and PEM-CMX, yielding the best performance for PEM-CMX, regardless the composition of feed solution. Before this optimization, this MCDI system showed a time-dependent selectivity, with a maximum of ρMgNa ≈3. The results were rationalized by applying an MCDI model based on the dynamic potential profile, describing the potential drops across the membrane and demonstrating a threshold for the current density.Research articleSelective adsorption of organic anions in a flow cell with asymmetric redox active electrodesWater Research, Volume 182, 2020, Article 115963Show abstractElectrochemically mediated adsorption is an emerging technology that utilizes redox active (or Faradaic) materials and has exhibited high salt adsorption capacity and superb ion selectivity. Here, we use a redox polymer polyvinylferrocene (PVFc) as the anode and a conducting polymer polypyrrole doped with a large anionic surfactant (pPy-DBS) as the cathode for selective electrochemical removal of inorganic and organic components. We fabricated a flow system with alternating adsorption/desorption steps incorporating an electrosorption cell and inline probes (ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy, conductivity and pH sensors) to demonstrate on-the-fly quantification of the ion adsorption performance. The flow system provides a more realistic evaluation of dynamic selectivity for the active materials during cyclic operation than that based on a single equilibrium adsorption step in batch. Our results show a three-fold (cycle) selectivity toward the removal of benzoate, as a representative organic anion, against a 50-fold abundance of perchlorate supporting anion, indicating that electrochemically mediated adsorption is a promising technology for waste water remediation applications.View full textPublished by Elsevier Ltd.