Electrocatalysis at conducting polymers
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0379677999001708
JavaScript is disabled on your browser.
Please enable JavaScript to use all the features on this page.
Skip to main contentSkip to article
Access through your institutionPurchase PDFSearch ScienceDirectArticle previewAbstractIntroductionSection snippetsReferences (99)Cited by (335)Recommended articles (6)Synthetic MetalsVolume 107, Issue 2, 30 November 1999, Pages 75-83ReviewElectrocatalysis at conducting polymersAuthor links open overlay panelAlbertas MalinauskasShow moreAdd to MendeleyShareCitehttps://doi.org/10.1016/S0379-6779(99)00170-8Get rights and contentAbstractA brief review on electrocatalysis and heterogeneous catalysis at conducting polymers is presented. The topics covered include: electrocatalysis at conducting polymer electrodes (quinone–hydroquinone redox couple, organic compounds of analytical interest, various electroorganic reactions, inorganic ions), electrocatalysis at conducting polymer electrodes, modified with dispersed metals, heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis at conducting polymers, doped with heteropolyanions, and various metal complexes.IntroductionSince the discovery of the organic conducting polymers more than 20 years ago, these materials are finding an increasing use in various branches of technology, such as metallization of dielectrics, primary and secondary batteries, antistatic coatings, electromagnetic shielding, electrochromic systems, etc. One of the most striking properties of conducting polymers is their ability to catalyze some electrode reactions. A thin layer of a conducting polymer, deposited onto the surface of substrate electrode, is able to enhance the kinetics of electrode processes of some solution species. These electrocatalytic processes, proceeding at conducting polymer electrodes, present a fast growing area of investigation, which may yield many unexpected applications in various fields of applied electrochemistry.The present paper presents a short review on electrocatalysis at conducting polymer electrodes, emphasizing the activities of the past few years. The material published on this topic may be divided into two main groups. One of these groups deals with electrocatalysis at conducting polymer modified electrodes, not containing any additional catalytically active substances. Within this group, the two subgroups are reviewed separately, one of them dealing with electrocatalysis of organic substances (subdivided further according to some groups of electroorganic reactions), and another one considering the electrocatalytic properties of conducting polymers towards inorganic ions. The second group deals with electrocatalysis at conducting polymers, containing other active substances. These systems are divided according to the nature of these additional substances: dispersed metal particles, heteropolyanions, and various metal complexes.In our knowledge, no review on electrocatalysis at conducting polymers has been published. Thus, we hope that the present short review, although not exhaustive, can help in introducing into this fast growing research area.Section snippetsElectrocatalysis at conducting polymer electrodesAt conducting polymer modified electrodes, at least three processes should be considered, taking place during electrocatalytic conversion of solution species. One of them is a heterogeneous electron transfer between the electrode and a conducting polymer layer, and electron transfer within the polymer film. As usual, this process is accompanied by the movement of charge compensating anions and solvent molecules within the conducting polymer film, and possible conformational changes of polymerElectrocatalysis at conducting polymer electrodes, modified with dispersed metalsNoble metal based catalysts are widely used in industry. The catalytic activity of these metals is known to depend highly on their dispersity and surface properties. As usual, for many catalytic processes, a high degree of dispersity and large surface area are desirable. Conducting polymers are often considered to be useful matrices for the immobilization of the dispersed noble metal catalysts. Porous structure and high surface area of many conducting polymers favours their use as supportingElectrocatalysis and heterogeneous catalysis at conducting polymers, doped with heteropolyanionsMost of the known conducting polymers are anion-doped in their conducting form. PANI is able to bind reversibly many small anions upon its oxidation from leucoemeraldine to emeraldine form, and to expell them back into the bulk solution on the back reduction, performed either electrochemically, or by the chemical means. Adversely, POPD is anion-doped in its reduced state, whereas small anions are expelled from the polymer film during its electrochemical oxidation. Reversible doping-dedopingElectrocatalysis at conducting polymers, doped with various metal complexesIn principle, a wide variety of anions can be included by doping into conducting polymers. If these anions are catalytically or electrocatalytically active, new composite catalyst materials can be obtained, whose properties will be determined not only by catalytically active dopants, but also, by the presence of the conducting polymer matrix.Metal phthalocyanine complexes are well known electrocatalysts, especially in electroreduction of molecular oxygen. The introduction of someJ. Yano et al.Synth. Met.(1992)Z. Mandic et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1996)A. Malinauskas et al.Electrochim. Acta(1998)A. Malinauskas et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1999)M.D. Levi et al.Synth. Met.(1993)J.J. Sun et al.Talanta(1998)S. Kim et al.Synth. Met.(1998)L. Yu et al.J. Power Sources(1998)J. Davis et al.Electrochim. Acta(1996)S. Pleus et al.Synth. Met.(1998)M.D. Levi et al.Electrochim. Acta(1992)N. Kawashima et al.Coll. Surfaces B — Biointerfaces(1998)A.H. Liu et al.Anal. Chim. Acta(1993)C.H. Yang et al.Electrochim. Acta(1998)K.H. Xue et al.J. Power Sources(1998)M. Barth et al.Synth. Met.(1997)F. Ficicioglu et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1998)I. Becerik et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1997)M.R. Guascito et al.Mater. Chem. Phys.(1996)R. Schrebler et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1995)W.T. Napporn et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1996)M.J. Croissant et al.Electrochim. Acta(1998)E.K.W. Lai et al.Synth. Met.(1997)M. Hasik et al.Synth. Met.(1997)S.W. Huang et al.Synth. Met.(1998)I.G. Casella et al.Anal. Chim. Acta(1996)L.M. Abrantes et al.Surf. Coat. Technol.(1998)H. Sung et al.Synth. Met.(1995)P. Wang et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1996)S.J. Dong et al.Electrochim. Acta(1994)S.J. Dong et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1993)M.C. Pham et al.Electrochim. Acta(1997)S.J. Dong et al.Electrochim. Acta(1998)B. Fabre et al.Electrochim. Acta(1997)J.K. Lee et al.J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.(1997)M. Hasik et al.J. Mol. Catal.(1994)K. Pielichowski et al.Synth. Met.(1997)E. Stochmal-Pomarzanska et al.Synth. Met.(1997)L.Y. Qu et al.Synth. Met.(1997)M. Lapkowski et al.Synth. Met.(1995)A. Elhourch et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1992)C. Coutanceau et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1995)C. Coutanceau et al.Electrochim. Acta(1995)B.A. Retamal et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1997)Y.F. Yang et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1997)E.I. Iwuoha et al.Biosens. Bioelectron.(1997)N. Endo et al.J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.(1997)M. Nakayama et al.J. Electroanal. Chem.(1997)K. Ogura et al.Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.(1998)View more references3D nanostructured nickel film supported to a conducting polymer as an electrocatalyst with exceptional properties for hydrogen evolution reaction2023, International Journal of Hydrogen EnergyShow abstractA two-layer system was applied to a nickel substrate for use as the electrocatalyst of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in a phosphate buffer solution. It was comprised of a three-dimensional (3D) porous underlayer of nickel nanoparticles with a size of less than 35 nm, followed by an electrodeposited top layer of poly (aniline-co-pyrrole). The underlayer and top coating were both synthesized by applying a constant potential to a three-electrode system. The catalyst characterization was performed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrometry. The electrocatalytic activity of the fabricated electrodes was measured by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and chronopotentiometry. The electrode exhibited an overpotential of 520 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm−2, comparable to 530 mV of platinum. Furthermore, the Tafel slope of the electrode was 90 mV dec−1, almost equal to that of platinum. This exceptional performance was explained by the synergistic interaction between 3D-Ni and poly (aniline-co-pyrrole) layers. Such a synergism was demonstrated by the fact that the resulting electrode lacked substantial catalytic activity when each of these two layers was deposited on the substrate alone. The Nyquist diagrams revealed that the 3D-Ni film resulted in minimal charge transfer resistance, allowing fast kinetics of HER. The coupling of this property with the ability of the polymer to adsorb H+ ions led to the high electrocatalytic activity of the proposed electrode. This electrode performed better than platinum, which was a promising result. This indicated that a lower voltage input was required to generate hydrogen gas using the prepared electrode.A polypyrrole hybrid thin film with [sn(dmit)<inf>3</inf>]<sup>2−</sup>, [tris(1,3-dithiole-2-thione-4,5-dithiolate)stannate]<sup>2−</sup>: Surface analysis2023, Applied Surface ScienceShow abstractIt is essential to understand the formation of the interface and the morphological design of the surface of electrodes and devices to control the structure and adapt the material to different applications. To study the interface, thin films of a PPy/[Sn(dmit)3]2 were electrochemically grown with the aid of a microcell typically used in scanning tunneling microscopy assays. Raman and FTIR spectroscopies showed the effect of dimensionality on those materials, especially on the vibrational modes of dmit ring and on the 75 nm thick PPy/[Sn (dmit)3]2 film, which presents an optimized polymer chain conjunction length and a 20 % greater contribution to the polaron charge carriers. X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) analyses confirmed the polaron/bipolaron ratio data, allowing us to determine other contributions to the surface charge density. Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) images show the hybrid thin film's different growth modes and the roughness evolution as a function of the electrochemical signal used in the synthesis.Acetylcholinesterase modified inkjet-printed graphene/gold nanoparticle/poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) hybrid electrode for ultrasensitive chlorpyrifos detection2023, BioelectrochemistryShow abstractThis study successfully created a portable acetylcholinesterase sensor on a printed hybrid electrode capable of detecting chlorpyrifos in the field. While a screen-printed electrode was chosen herein to enable a single-use and portable platform for the in-field application, the hybrid material was incorporated to ensure ultrasensitive detection at lower electrode potentials. The hybrid ink of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) decorated on graphene (GP) sheets in poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) was synthesized through a simple completely-green one-pot process. The subsequent characterization was carried out via transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The synergy resulting from the greater surface area and enhanced transfer of electrons combined with high levels of electrocatalytic activity and superb conductivity offered by GP, AuNP, and PEDOT:PSS allows the sensor to exhibit ultrasensitive chlorpyrifos detection at the relatively low detection limit of 0.07 nM. The sensor demonstrated in this study also exhibits good reproducibility, desirable stability, and a successful application for the real sample with satisfactory recovery results of around 106 %, indicating its potential for use as a tool in the analysis of pesticides.Enzyme based bioelectrocatalysis over laccase immobilized poly-thiophene supported carbon fiber paper for the oxidation of D-ribofuranose to D-ribonolactone2022, Molecular CatalysisShow abstractA modified electrode based on laccase immobilized poly-thiophene-3-carboxylic acid supported on carbon fiber paper was developed for the electrocatalytic oxidation of D-ribofuranose to otherwise difficult-to-access D-ribonolactone, a precursor for C-nucleoside based drug like Remdesivir. The electrochemical oxidation of D-ribofuranose was achieved by the TEMPO-mediated electrochemical process. The experimental parameters were optimized and validated using Design of Experiment (DoE) statistical tool indicating the concentration of TEMPO and stirring as important parameters in bulk electrolysis. The mechanism for the electrochemical oxidation of D-ribofuronose followed single electron anodic oxidation of TEMPO mediated by laccase to the corresponding oxoammonium nitrosonium species which was vital for the mediated electrochemical oxidation. The mechanism for the electrochemical oxidation was established using cyclic voltammetry and computational studies. The plausible interactions of laccase enzyme with TEMPO mediator were studied using molecular docking experiments. This facile method was successfully applied for the oxidation of D-ribofuranose to D-ribonolactone.Electropolymerized melamine for simultaneous determination of nitrite and tartrazine2020, Food ChemistryShow abstractPoly(melamine) (PMel) was synthesized via the electropolymerization of melamine monomer, which was then characterized by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The possible polymerization mechanisms of melamine were also revealed by FT-IR spectroscopy and UV–Vis spectroscopy. Next, the PMel modified GCE (PMel/GCE) was used for the simultaneous determination of nitrite (NO2−) and tartrazine, and the parameters were optimized. The kinetic study showed that the electrochemical oxidation of nitrite and tartrazine at the surface of PMel/GCE is a typical surface-controlled electrode process. Under the optimun conditions, the developed sensor outperformed those previously reported, and it also exhibited high selectivity and reproducibility. Finally, the PMel/GCE was used for the simultaneous determination of nitrite and tartrazine in foodstuffs, and the results indicated that the proposed sensor could be a promising candidate for accurate determination of nitrite and tartrazine in real food samples.The role of electrolytically deposited palladium and platinum metal nanoparticles dispersed onto poly(1,8-diaminonaphthalene) for enhanced glucose electrooxidation in biofuel cells2020, Electrochimica ActaShow abstractGlucose biofuel cells are one of the promising power supplies with a competent long-term stability and power density. In this respect, catalysts of palladium (Pd) and platinum (Pt) metal nanoparticles film coated electrode were fabricated for biofuel cell. The Pt and Pd particles were electrochemically deposited onto glassy carbon (GC) electrode modified with poly(1,8-diaminonaphthalene), (p-1,8-DAN), via single or layer-by-layer electrodeposition. In results, Pt/p-1,8-DAN/GC, Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC, Pt-Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC and Pd-Pt/p-1,8-DAN/GC shell-core catalysts were fabricated and characterized by several analytical techniques such as AFM, EDX,SEM, TEM, and XPS, in addition to electrochemical methods. Their catalytic electrooxidation behaviors of glucose were investigated in alkaline medium. The as-prepared nano-catalysts showed improved electrocatalytic performances and better stability for glucose oxidation reaction (GOR) due to the presence of metal nanoparticles. The Pd as core and Pt as shell in Pt-Pd/p-1,8-DAN/GC catalyst exhibited higher electrochemically accessible surface area (157.58 m2/g) and a favored electrooxidation efficiency. Moreover, the bimetallic Pt-Pd shell-core electrode showed higher resistance to poisoning (tolerance 1.24) and a decrease in the onset potential to -0.28 V. These multipurpose electro-catalysts are a potential candidate for developing a novel glucose biofuel cell.View all citing articles on ScopusResearch articleRecent advances in the synthesis of conducting polymers from the vapour phaseProgress in Materials Science, Volume 86, 2017, pp. 127-146Show abstractInherently conducting polymers (ICPs) combine the electrical properties of metals and semiconductors with a polymer’s ability to flex and/or stretch. In general, polymers are relatively simple to synthesise, however, ICPs themselves have had limited uptake in consumer devices. This lack of uptake is in part related to the insolubility of many ICPs in common industrial solvents, and hence methods to manufacture them in a usable form have been problematic. Vapour phase polymerisation (VPP) is one method that provides a convenient route to producing thin films of both soluble and insoluble ICPs, and nanocomposites thereof. In this critical review the VPP process will be discussed from the fundamental viewpoint of the proposed polymerisation mechanism and the parameters affecting polymer growth for a range of different monomers (thiophene, 3-hexylthiophene, pyrrole, 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene, etc.). Looking forward into the future, new areas of polymer design and fabrication using VPP will be discussed, such as the enhancement of ICPs through additives, and next generation device fabrication based upon VPP ICPs.Research articleConducting polymeric nanocomposites: A review in solar fuel applicationsFuel, Volume 325, 2022, Article 124899Show abstractOver the last few decades, research is being carried out in the field of photocatalysis to investigate for fuels production in sustainable manner. Due to an energy depletion and CO2 emission in the current situation urge us to produce alternative fuels. Water splitting and the reduction of carbon dioxide using various photocatalysts are being developed as promising sustainable methods to obtain eco-friendly energy sources. Conducting polymers (CP) stand out among the current pool of studied photocatalysts due to their high light absorption efficiency, good stability, tunable electronic characteristics, and cost effectiveness. Various CP, such as polyaniline, polythiophene, and polypyrrole have been integrated with different semiconducting nanomaterials to produce photocatalytic composites. Therefore, in this review, we focus on the synthesis of CP and their nanocomposites for application in CO2 photoreduction and water splitting into fuel production using different polymeric composites. Many composite photocatalysts show synergistic effects between the polymeric material and other counterparts in the composite. The improvement in the inactivity of the composite can be attributed to the band configurations of the composite. Improving the separation of excitons, widening the light absorption region, enhancing the substrate adsorption, and preventing photocorrosion conductive polymers can significantly increase the photocatalytic activity under visible light. The addition of conducting polymers with an inorganic materials dramatically change their band positions and may reduce the possiblilty of electron hole recombination. Here, we explain by what means conductive polymeric material can improve the efficiency of the composite in an organized manner, thereby providing a comprehensive reference to the field. Finally, the current challenges and future perspectives of polymeric catalysts have been discussed briefly.Research articlePolyaniline/polyvinyl alcohol blends: Effect of sulfonic acid dopants on microstructural, optical, thermal and electrical propertiesSynthetic Metals, Volume 191, 2014, pp. 126-134Show abstractThis correspondence reports the preparation and performance of different polyaniline–polyvinyl blends (PANI–PVA) doped with sulfonated acids. PANI is prepared by in situ dispersion polymerisation, and a subsequent extensive study determines the effect of protonation upon doping with four different types of acids. We obtain the blends by changing the four different dopants, viz. β-naphtalenesulfonic acid (NSA), camphorsulfonic acid (CSA), dodecyl benzene sulfonic acid (DBSA) and p-toluene sulfonic acid (PTSA), while maintaining constant PANI and PVA concentrations. The polymer thin films are deposited on glass substrates by the dip-cast procedure. Lastly, the films of the obtained blends are characterised by surface, structural morphology (elemental analysis, AFM, SEM, FTIR and XRD), thermal properties (TGA and DSC) and UV–vis spectroscopy. The morphological analysis shows that the nanoparticles form different shapes, which depend on the type of dopant, whereas the FTIR spectra show the chemical interaction between the two polymers. The thermal study reveals three-step degradation of the polymer blends. To confirm the possible use of these blends in the electrical industry, the electrical properties are studied by in-plane I–V characteristics and four probe conductivity measurements.Research articleIntrinsically conducting polymers in electrochemical energy technology: Trends and progressElectrochimica Acta, Volume 122, 2014, pp. 93-107Show abstractThe use of intrinsically conducting polymers (ICPs) like polythiophene (PTh), polypyrrole (PPy) and polyaniline (PANI) in devices and systems for electrochemical energy storage and conversion is briefly reviewed with a focus on an overview distinguishing between already established uses and potential applications. Basic principles in these three major fields are highlighted:•ICPs as active masses.•ICPs as conductance-enhancing additives.•ICPs as auxiliary materials beyond conductance.Research articleMultifunctional electrocatalysts derived from conducting polymer and metal organic framework complexesNano Energy, Volume 45, 2018, pp. 127-135Show abstractHigh cost, scarcity, and detrimental environmental effect of the noble-metal based catalysts have prompted the seek of less expensive, more benign, and earth abundant substitutes for energy conversion and storage. Here, we demonstrate a novel multifunctional electrocatalyst constructed by pyrolysis of the complex of polyaniline (PANI) and metal organic framework [Co-based MOF; zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF-67)]. The resultant PANI/ZIF-67 complex unveiled excellent electrocatalytic activities towards oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in alkaline medium. It was found that the catalytic activities of the PANI/ZIF-67 complex towards ORR, OER and HER could be tuned by simple changing the weight ratio of PANI to the MOF. Further, we tested the material as an air electrode for a primary zinc-air battery, demonstrating an open-circuit potential of 1.42 V and a peak power density of ~ 45 mW cm−2 - both are superior to those of its counterpart of the Pt/C air-electrode. The excellent multifunctional catalytic activities of the PANI/ZIF-67 are mainly attributed to the synergistic combination of cobalt nanoparticles, Co3O4, and nitrogen doped carbon from the PANI/ZIF-67 complex after pyrolysis.Research articleProtective polymeric films for industrial substrates: A critical review on past and recent applications with conducting polymers and polymer composites/nanocompositesProgress in Materials Science, Volume 104, 2019, pp. 380-450Show abstractCorrosion defined as the deterioration of a material when it interacts with its environment is a global problem. Among the different strategies employed to combat corrosion, the use of coatings and corrosion inhibitors are the most popular. Coatings or corrosion inhibitors form a layer over the metallic substrate and protect it against corrosion. Polymers, both naturally occurring and synthetic have been tested for metal corrosion protection as replacement for the toxic inorganic and organic corrosion inhibitors. Interest in them stems from their availability, cost effectiveness, and eco-friendliness (especially for natural polymers) in addition to the inherent stability and multiple adsorption centers. However, it is found that most polymeric materials studied are moderate corrosion inhibitors. Several attempts such as copolymerization, addition of substances that exert synergistic effect, cross linking, blending, and most recently incorporation of inorganic substances in nano size into the polymer matrix have been made to improve the inhibition ability of polymers. In this review, the application of conducting polymers, polymer composites and nanocomposites for corrosion protection of different industrial metal substrates are explored based on reported experimental data and their mechanism of inhibition explained. Some identified drawbacks and future direction in this area have also been highlighted.View full textCopyright © 1999 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.