Electrochemical Carbon Dioxide Capture and Concentration
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/api-gateway/chemrxiv/assets/orp/resource/item/63393258114b7ea829251b3f/original/electrochemical-carbon-dioxide-capture-and-concentration.pdf
 1 Electrochemical Carbon Dioxide Capture and Concentration  
 
Alessandra M. Zito†, Lauren E. Clarke †, Jeffrey Barlow †, Daniel Bím†, Zisheng Zhang , Katelyn  Ripley, 
Clarabella Li, Amanda Kummeth,  McLain E. Leonard, Anastassia N. Alexandrova, * Fikile Brushett, * Jenny 
Y. Yang * 
†equal contribution  
*ana@chem.ucla.edu , Brushett@mit.edu , j.yang@uci.edu  
 
1. Introduction  
Burgeoning population and industrialization  have resulted in significantly increased global energy 
demand  and fossil fuel consumption . As a result, anthropogenic carbon dioxide  (CO 2) emissions have 
quickly grown to unsustainable levels.  Despite aggressive targets and policies implemented globally  to 
reduce emissions  over the last several years , our annual rate of net CO 2 released has reac hed record levels, 
exceeding 36 Gt CO 2/year  from fossil fuels and industry  in both 2019 and 2021.1-3 To limit global 
temperature rise to well below  2°C, as called for by the 2015 Paris agreement,5 rapid and widespread 
decarbonization efforts are needed across all sectors of our economy .  
In 20 20, the power  (i.e., electricity , heat)  and industrial  (e.g., cement  production,  
chemicals/petrochemicals manufacturing ) sectors  account ed for over 50%  of total emissions worldwide.6 
Within these sectors, large scale stationary “point -source s” make up the majority of these emissions , 
which are generated from burning fossil fuels or as chemical process byproducts .7 The remain ing 
generators of CO 2 emissions consist of small, disperse, and often mobile source s, primarily from the 
transportation, waste , and agricultur al sectors .2, 6, 8 The transition towards decarbonizing all of these 
sectors  will need to be driven by a significant  expansion of renewable s and electrification, coupled with 
energy efficiency improvements . However, pathways towards decarbonization also call for large scale 
carbon capture  and storage (CCS)  or utilization/conversion  (CCU) . The proposed  suite of carbon capture 
technologies can specifically  address emissions from existing fossil -fuel based infrastructure , account for 
hard -to-decarbonize sectors  (e.g., industrial  byproducts) , and enabl e net-negative applications .1 9, 10 
Considerable progress has been made in the development and optimization of carbon capture 
systems , particularly for coal and natural gas power plant applications.1 According to the Global CCS 
institute, more than 100 commercial scale CCS facilities are operational , in construction, or in 
development stages as of 2021 , most of which capture CO 2 from the power and industrial sectors .11, 12 
However, i n order to meet the Paris agreement , not only would all “point -source” processes need to 
approach net -zero  carbon emissions , but emissions from other  distributed  sources also need to be 
significantly reduced or eliminated .13  Direct air capture (DAC) of CO 2 represents a carbon -negative  2 technology that could further act to lower emissions from non -point -source emitters.14, 15 There are 
currently fewer  commercialized DAC processes  (19 plants opera ting worldwide) , and those that do exist 
are relatively small -scale , although DAC  is currently receiving increas ed levels of attention and monetary 
support from both public - and private -sector organizations.16 
Despite the role CCS is project to play in emissions reduction, a major drawback to current 
technolog ies is that carbon capture and concentration (CCC) methods remain energy -intensive and costly , 
prevent ing widespread implementation.17-21 One of the most mature CCC technologies is the utilization of 
amine -based  absorbent solutions for capture from power plant flue gas. Such a process exploits the 
natural affinity of amines for absorbing CO 2 at room temperature, followed by the thermal regener ation 
of the absorber to enable cyclic use.22 A weakness  of this approach , and thermally driven separation in 
general,  is the Carnot limitation incurred by the temperature  swing s necessary  for absorptio n and 
desorption. As a result, a typical alkanolamine capture process operating between ~37–117 °C can only 
approach a maximum of ~21% energetic efficiency.23 After decades  of research, most state -of-the-art 
amine  capture systems still have high heating demands of > 2.3 GJ/ton CO 2 (>110 kJ/mol CO 2). Therefore, 
current systems are  limited to ca. < 20% of the Carnot efficiency , or < 5% overall energetic efficiency , upon 
optimization at scale.24-27 To put this efficiency into context, 20 –30% of the entire power output of a typical 
coal-fired power plant would be required to power a retrofitted CCC process alone.28, 29  Using these 
systems,  every ton of captured  CO 2 would cost an estimated  $50-100 for power generation plants and 
$40-120 for indus trial sources ( i.e., cement, iron, or steel) .30-33 CCC systems for DAC  are further 
underdeveloped , and the heating de mand s are much higher due to the significantly lower CO 2 
concentrations . Typical thermochemical DAC systems require > 5 GJ/ton CO2 (or > 240 kJ/mol CO 2), 
operating at <  10% of the energetic efficiency , resulting in higher system costs ; however, it is important 
to note that due to the earl y development stage of  DAC technologies, these energy estimates  are 
generated with less certainty than point -source capture facilities .18, 34  Reported  DAC  cost estimates are in 
the range of $ 130–1000/ton CO 2, dependent upon the source of heat to drive regeneration (i.e., waste 
heat or generated heat) and the carbon footprint associated with this heat .18, 33-36  Specifically , methods 
which fall on the lower end of this cost range typically assume access to a source of waste heat to carry 
out process heating needs. Reaching net -zero emissions by 2040 is estimated to require about 2 ,000 l arge -
scale CCS facilities  worldwide .37 While most current commercial demonstrations primarily  use 
thermochemical approaches, achievement of large -scale carbon capture will likely require a diverse 
portfolio of options. Development of methods which offer higher energetic efficiencies  than thermally - 3 driven processes and are operated with low -carbon energy sources could enable more widespread 
deployment of CCC.  
More efficient CO 2 separation strategies would specifically enable operation closer to the 
thermodynamic minimum for system energy requirements.  To separat e a species from a gaseous mixture , 
the minimum energy  is equal to the  difference in Gibbs free energy before and afte r separation. In the 
limit of “skimming”, where an infinitesimal quantity  of CO 2 is removed from a feed gas mixture at ambient 
pressures, the Gibbs free energy of separation ( Δ𝐺) is given by Equation 1.38  
Δ𝐺=−𝑅𝑇ln(𝑃CO2
𝑃0)             Eq. 1  
where 𝑅 is the ideal gas constant (8.314 J  mol-1 K-1), 𝑇 is the absolute temperature  (K), 𝑃CO2 is the partial 
pressure of CO 2 in the feed gas mixture, and 𝑃0 is the ambient pressure. The relationship between the 
change of free energy and partial pressure  demonstrates  that CO 2 separation is an endergonic process 
whose energetics depend on the reaction conditions as well as the required changes in concentration. For 
example, for DAC , separating 400 ppm CO 2 from air at standard temperature (T = 298.15 K) and pressure 
(1 bar) to generate a pu re CO 2 stream at 1 bar will require  at least 19 kJ/mol CO 2. However, concentration 
from a flue gas stream containing 15 mol% CO 2 at ambient conditions  requires a  minimum work of 
separation of 4.7 kJ/mol CO 2. Note that “skimming” considered in Equation 1 re presents a lower bound  
of energy requirements, which  will increase with the fraction of CO 2 removed from the feed gas.  
Considering 90% removal of CO 2 from a flue gas mixture (15 mol% CO 2), and using expressions 
demonstrated in previous work ,18, 38 at least 6.4 kJ/mol CO 2 is required. T he minimum thermodynamic 
work  constitutes a limit which is unachievable under practical conditions due to irreversible  losses  (e.g., 
entropic losses) ; however,  all processes , whether they are  thermochemical, electrochemical, or 
otherwise, aim to  balance these losses with process efficiency, selectivity, and yield , with a goal  of 
minimizing cost.  
Electrochemical carbon capture an d concentration (eCCC)  offer s a promising alternative to 
thermochemical pr ocesses  as it circumvent s the limitations of temperature -driven capture  and release .39-
43 More specifically , electrochemical carbon capture systems are not bounded by Carnot efficiencies, and 
can theoretically  approach operation at the thermodynamic minimu m energy requirement (i.e., 100% 
energetic efficiencies ).41 As such, in electrochemical systems, the minimum cell potential ( 𝐸cell) is related 
to the minimum separation work (represented by the change in Gibbs free energy).  
𝐸cell=−∆G
𝑛𝐹     Eq. 2   4 where 𝑛 is the mole s of electrons transferred per mole of CO 2 captured , 𝐹 is the Faraday constant ( 96485 
C mol-1), and together, they describe the charge transferred during the reaction. As CO 2 separation is a 
nonspontaneous process ( ∆G > 0), the cell potential, or difference between the potential of the cathode 
and anode , is negative ( 𝐸cell < 0). This minimum cell potential is directly related to the relative CO 2 
concentrations at the two electrodes via the Nernst equation. To perturb the re action equilibrium and 
drive the process  toward favorable CO 2 separation , the actual cell potential  must be greater than |𝐸cell|, 
resulting in energetic losses . This deviation from 𝐸cell is dependent on the thermodynamic cycle of the 
separation system and overpotentials that result from  resistive losses in the electrochemical cell(s). These 
cell resistances arise from a summation of inefficiencies associated with kinetic, ohmic, and trans port 
phenomena that underlie system operation and their magnitudes are influenced by the chosen cell 
materials and reactor  operating conditions (i.e., current density) . Thus, cell potential and associated 
energy requ irements are influenced  by several desig n and operati onal factors . Despite these potential 
energetic penalties, an advantage of electrochemical systems is their ability to apply electric currents ( via 
polarized electrode surfaces ) that directly act on target redox -active molecules rather than on  the entire 
capture medium via heating and cooling,  thus  reducing or eliminating sensible heat losses.  Due to these 
differences in process energetics, electrochemical systems can potentially operate with reduced energy 
requirements over thermochemical systems and are therefore particularly attractive.  Additionally, eCCC 
systems present an opportunity to operate at milder conditions  (i.e., at or near room temperature) , allow 
for modular designs  that can more readily be scaled up or down, and can run on electricity from renewabl e 
sources .  
This review will begin by discussing the  history of eCCC , describing early work in the field and the 
motivation for pursuing such a  process . We will then trans ition towards discussing more recent 
approaches , with a heavier emphasis on methods that employ redox mediators to facilitate CO 2 capture 
and release . These methods rely more on optimization through chemical design and  include pH -mediated 
systems (Section 3), electrochemically -mediated amine regeneration (Section 4), and direct capture with 
redox -active molecules (Section 5) . For each approach, we provide a general overview of the system, 
discuss redox mediator chemistries that have been studied in  literature, and highlight requirements for 
future  generations of redox mediators. We also describe previous demonstrations of each method and 
current cell/system designs that have been used at the lab -scale.  To conclude  (Section 6) , we  summarize 
achieveme nts in the field, current challenges, and opportunities for improving these technologies. Overall, 
this review is a comprehensive survey of the eCCC field and evaluates the chemical, theoretical, and 
electrochemical engineering aspects of this approach. We  hope this work  can be used to assist the  5 community in the development of modern economical eCCC technologies that can be utilized in large -
scale CCS processes.  
 
2. History of eCCC: Early work and Motivatio n. 
2.1 Low Temperature  Carbonation Cells . Electrochemical carbon dioxide capture uses electron 
transfer reactions to capture and concentrate carbon dioxide. The original motivation for using an 
electrochemical approach to CCC can be traced back to 1969, when Huebscher and Babin sky were 
interested in developing an efficient way to separate carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to be used for 
life support systems, specifically for use in submarines as well as  air and space  travel.4  
The system design can operate continuously and includes two electrochemical concentration cell 
stacks, a process air blower, and a dehumidifying -humidifying unit (Figure 1). The process of CO 2 
separation can be broken down into two stages , which are both typically operated at temperatures of 
65°C or lower . The first stage (Stage I, Figure 1) feature s the carbonation cell, in which a CO 2-rich air stream 
(0.6%) is supplied to the cathode , where both CO 2 and oxygen (O 2) are removed  (Scheme 1, cathodic 
reactions).  Then, a concentrated mixture of CO 2 (66.7%) and O2 (33.3%) is generated  at the anode (Scheme 
1, anodic reactions).  
Since the first stage captures  both oxygen and carbon dioxide, the second stage (Stage II, Figure 1) is 
used  for their  separation . The cell is similar to the carbonation cell in Stage I, but it uses an acidic 
electrolyte such that  oxygen is reduced at the cathode and react s with protons to form water  (i.e., O2+
4H++4e–→2H2O). During this reduction step which removes oxygen, CO 2 can be recovered  at high 
purities. At the anode of the Stage II cell, water decomposes via oxidation to reform oxygen and protons 
(H+); the O2 is transferred out of the cell, and the protons  are re-consumed  at the cathode.  Scheme 1. Reactions governing Huebscher and Babinsky’s low-temperature carbonation cell.4 
Cathod ic Reactions        Anod ic Reactions  
O2+2H2O+4e–→4OH–     HCO3–→CO2+OH–  
CO2+OH–→HCO3–      CO32–+H2O→CO2+2OH– 
HCO3–+OH–→CO32–+H2O     4OH–→O2+2H2O+4e–  6 This system captured CO 2 
from low levels with 
concentration  at high purities (97–
98%)  and was  stable for over 1000 
hours  of operation . Additionally, 
this system was similar or lighter 
in weight than other systems at 
the time ,44,45 making it an effective 
option for mobile applications . 
However , the process is energy 
intensive, requiring cell voltage s 
ca. ≥ 1 V for both stage I and stage II . This voltage  is quite high, considering that the minimum cell voltage 
for separating 0.6% CO 2 is ca. 0.1 V (from  eq. 1 and 2). Despite these limitations associated with Huebscher 
and Babinsky’s system, it was the first demonstration of  electrochemical CO 2 capture and concentration.  
Later, in 1971, Wynveen and Quattrone used an ambient -temperature eCCC system  for aircrafts ,46 
which was also demonstrated by Wynveen et al. for spacecrafts.47 Winnick et al. also explored the use of 
this system for O 2 regeneration during manned space missions using carbon capture, concentration, and 
conversion.48 Wynveen and Quattrone’s technology contained electrochemical  cells operating 
continuously in series, where each used an aqueous cesium carbonate (Cs 2CO 3) electrolyte. The electrodes 
were made of a fine mesh onto which Teflon and platinum were cast,  forming a porous platinum 
electrode. The setup was similar to that of a fuel cell, where the cathode and anode were separated by 
the electrolyte (supported by a porous matrix), and gas -phase reactants were fed directly to the 
electrodes. The feed gas on the cathode side is  humid , CO 2-containing cabin air . The cathode had a similar 
function to the Stage I cathode of the Huebscher and Babinsky method described above  (Scheme 1 ), 
where both CO 2 and O 2 are reduced and thus captured . On the anode side, hydrogen is fed to the cell,  
Figure 1 . Huebscher and Babinsky model for the first known eCCC 
system. From ref 42 Reprinted with permission from SAE 
International.   
 
Scheme 2. Reactions Governing Wynveen and Quattrone’s Low -Temperature Carbonation Cell  
Cathode Reactions      Anode Reaction  
O2+2H2O+4e–→4OH–     2H2+4OH–→4H2O+4e– 
CO2+OH–→HCO3–      CO32–+H2O→HCO3–+OH–  
HCO3–+OH–→CO32–+H2O     HCO3–→CO2+OH–  7 which is oxidized , reducing the solu tion pH , leading to the dissociation of either bicarbonate ions or 
carbonic acid into CO 2 (similar to the anode reaction of Scheme 2).  
A major problem  associated with this system was the poor ionic selectivity  of the electrolyte -imbibed 
porous matrix used to separate the electrodes . The architecture  was improved by Eisaman et al. by the 
use of anion exchange membranes ,49 but the current density of the CO 2 conce ntrator was low (0.5 mA 
cm-2) and the system required a particularly high humidity in order to prevent electrolyte precipitat ion. 
Additionally, the energy requir ed to run the  process was 350 kJ/mol CO 2 for separation from air , which is 
significantly higher than the minimum separation work, yielding low energetic efficiencies . 
2.2 High Temperature Molten Cell Electrolyzers . Carbonation cells  for CO 2 capture , as described in 
Section 2.1 in the context of low temperature applications , can also be operated at higher temperatures.  
These  technologies have adapted molten carbonate fuel cell platforms for carbon capture and 
concentration (i.e., driven mode), with some methods also using schemes that can generate energy 
simultaneously (i.e., fuel-cell mode). Compared to the low temperature carbonation cells, which use 
aqueous -based electrolytes, these devices employ  molten salt electrolytes . This  enable s lower sensitivity 
to feed -gas humidity and higher conductivity , and in previous demonstrat ions,  allowed for higher current 
densities with either similar or improved system efficiencies.  The higher temperatures also improve 
electrode kinetics, which can reduce the need for noble metal catalysts .50, 51 The reaction mechanisms  are 
similar to that described for low-temperature  carbonation cells  in Section 2.1 , where CO 2 is consumed at 
the cathode and discharged at the anode, but the cells are run at much higher temperatures ( ≥500°C). 
Kang and Winnick  demonstrated a molten carbonate CO 2 capture device in a driven mode, where CO 2 was 
concentrated  from 1% to 5.8%   and 0.25% to 3.4% in a lab -scale cell .52 The low CO 2 concentration at the 
anode was due to use of a nitrogen sweep gas to collect the released CO 2; therefore the level of CO 2 
concentration at the anode is expected t o be higher in a more optimized and scaled up device. However, 
similar to low temperature devices, this type of cell is limited in its ability to recover C O2 at high purities 
due to the simultaneous production of O 2 at the anode (as described in Scheme 1 ). Additionally, to keep 
the molten carbonate electrolyte from decomposing, the voltage range was limited, which also limited 
accessible current densities in this demonstration . 
  
3. pH-Mediated eCCC Systems  
3.1 Overv iew 
Electrochemically generated pH changes in  aqueous solutions presents a particularly unique approach 
for the absorption and release of carbon dioxide. Like other solvents, the concentration of  physically  8 dissolved  CO 2 in water remains constant at a given temperature and pressure in accordance with Henry’s 
law. Unlike other solvents , however, water readily reacts with dissolved CO 2 in solution to form a complex 
buffer consisting of carbonic acid, bicarbonate, and carbon ate (eq. 3–5).  
CO2(aq)+H2O  𝐾1  ↔  H2CO3      Eq. 3 
H2CO3+OH–  𝐾2  ↔  HCO3–+H2O    Eq. 4 
HCO3–+OH–  𝐾3  ↔  CO32–+H2O    Eq. 5 
The concentration and proportion of these species is dependent upon the solution pH . At high pH, t he 
reactivity of CO 2 with hydroxide results in a  larger concentration of CO 2 to effectively be “stored” in 
solution in the form of carbonate or bicarbonate . Acidification of the solution reverses the buffer 
equilibrium and releases the captured gas. Recently, research groups have sought  to exploit this 
characteristic of aqueous systems for the development of electrochemical  CCC systems. Here, we provide 
a short overview of electrodialysis/electrodeionization systems and more extensively describe pH -swings 
with redox mediators.  A more thorough description of electrodialysis/electrodeionization is provided in  
the recent review by  Sharifian et al.53 
3.1.1 Electrodialysis /Electrodeionization . Bipolar membrane electrodialysis (B PMED) has be en 
applied as one method for pH -mediated e CCC.54 BPMED uses a combination of cation and anion exchange 
membranes and a current to separate a solution by charge.  In aqueous media, the water molecules are  
split into protons and hydroxide ions  to balance charge . Thus, using  a sodium chloride  (NaCl ) electrolyte , 
the electrolyte separates into sodium hydroxide ( NaOH ) and hydrochloric acid ( HCl). In the capture stage , 
CO 2 reacts with NaOH to form carbonate (specifically Na 2CO 3•10H 2O), which can be removed through 
crystallization. The process can also be reversed to release concentrated CO 2. 
BPMED has been studied for a variety of carbon capture  applications. For direct air capture  (~400 ppm 
CO 2), Eisaman et al.  found that when using solutions of sodium or potassium hydroxide and applying a 
constant -current across a BPMED stack, it is possible to remove  CO 2 with an energetic cost of about 200 
kJ/mol CO 2; the regeneration of CO 2 using B PMED from carbonate requires an additional ~100 kJ/mol 
CO 2.55, 56 Therefore, t he entire process requires a minimum energy input of about 300 kJ/mol CO 2 to 
extract and recover carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Sabatino  et al. noted in their techno -economic 
review that their direct air capture setup has an energy requirement as low as 236 kJ/mol CO 2, but a 
minimum cost of $773/ton CO 2 due to the high cos ts of bipolar and ion exchange membranes  57 
BPMED was also used to remove CO 2 from seawater, samples were run through a B PMED system to 
separate them into acidified and basified sea water solutions. The minimum total electrochemical  9 energetic input for extracting 59% of the total CO 2 in solution was 242 kJ/mol, which was expected to 
improve with t he scale -up of the BPMED to commercial -scale seawater capture systems .58 Additionally , 
Carlson and coworkers attempted to capture CO 2 from flue gas using a combination of BPMED and 
electrodeionization.59 This system effectively modulated the solution pH , and capture was achieved from 
a 15% stream to 80% CO 2. 
3.1.2  pH swing with PCET mediators . Other systems 
capitalize on pH changes by using redox -active proton 
mediators. Compounds capable of proton coupled 
electron transfer (PCET) have the potential to be 
particularl y useful for  pH-swing  eCCC processes , which 
utilize an electrochemical bias to shift pH in one direction 
or the othe r to facilitate CO 2 capture or release . In a 
typical system, a CO 2-containing feed stream  is contacted 
with a  basic solution and captured in the form of  dissolved 
inorganic carbon  (HCO3-, CO32-, and CO 2(aq)). To release the 
captured gas, a potential is applied (E app1, Figure 2) to oxidize the mediator, which consequently undergoes 
deprotonation. Acidification due  to mediator deprotonation shifts the equilibrium to favor CO 2 evolution. 
To regenerate the basic solution, a more negative potential (E app2, Figure 2) is applied to reduce, and 
consequently protonate, the mediator. The resulting increase in solution basic ity promotes CO 2 capture 
via dissolved inorganic carbon  formation , completing the overall cycle.  
For efficient CO 2 separation via pH -swing eCCC, an ideal PCET redox mediator should be highly soluble  
and have a  sufficiently high pKa difference in its reduced/oxidized forms to generate large pH changes 
adequate for CO 2 capture and release . The mediator must also be stable under both acidic and alkaline 
conditions for extended periods of time.  Additionally, these  molecules must exhibit  stability in the 
presence of the feed gas composition of interest. For example, air contains high concentrations of oxygen, 
and thus the mediator must be O 2-stable  in these DAC applications . Lastly, mediators capable of concerted 
proton -electron transfer (CPET)  reactions  are beneficial as they can enable operation  at mild er 
potentials.60 Several classes of molecules have been identified as candidate redox mediators for pH-swing 
driven eCCC , includ ing quinones ,61-68 phenazines,  69, 70 redox -active amines,71 inorganic compounds , 61,72 
and even a riboflavin compound.73 
3.2 Demonstrations  Figure 2 . General representation of a pH 
mediated eCCC cycle.  
Figure 2.General representation of a pH-
mediated eCCC system. 10 3.2.1 Quinones.  Quinones are a well -studied family of molecules that have been shown to readily 
undergo 2 H+, 2 e– PCET reactions to interconvert between their quinone and hydroquinone forms  
(Scheme 3).74, 75 Reduced quinones have also been used directly to capture CO 2 in aprotic conditions , as 
described  in Section 5. In this section, their use in pH -
swing  cycles  will be discussed. The ubiquity of 
quinones in nature and other fields of research have 
led to a large catalogue of commercially available or 
readily accessible derivatives that span an extensive 
range of measured redox potentials and 
solubilities.61-63 Additionally, many quinones undergo 
PCET  reactions in aqueous solutions  with facile 
conversion between  quinone and hydroquinone 
forms.74 Unfortunately, most commercially -available 
quinones have limited solubility and stability in 
aqueous solution s, confining the current landscape of suitable candidates to only a handful of examples.64-
66 However, these types of properties can b e improved with molecular functionalization .67 Huang et. al. 
reported the utilization of tiron  (disodium 4,5 -dihydroxy -1,3-benzenedisul fonate , an ortho -
hydroquinone ) as a redox -active pH mediator to successfully capture and release carbon dioxide from 
simulated flue gas streams.62 In a proof -of-concept demonstration with  0.7 M quinone conc entration  in 
solution , the pH was change d between 9.2 and 5.7 using constant current electrolysis at 18 mA cm-2. The 
system was generally  effective , operat ing at >90% Faradaic efficiency, and the estimated energy 
requirements were similar to existing thermally -driven systems ( 2.4 GJ/ton CO 2 or 105.6 kJ/mol CO 2). 
However,  a nitrogen sweep gas was used in this demonstration to remove desorbed CO 2, which is 
unrepresentative of expected system operation where CO 2 is collected at high concentration s. Thus, 
energetic and Faradaic efficiencies are expected to be lower than these reported values under more 
realistic operating conditions. However , the experiment was run in a non -optimized H -cell platform, and 
performance  would be expected to decrease as  the cell and overall system are engineered for higher 
performance. Another challenge with this PCET chemistry is its long -term stability;  the system was unable 
to perform multiple capture -release cycles, limiting its practicality.   
Scheme 3. Quinones can undergo two separate 
one-electron reductions in the presence of a 
proton source to form the semiquinone (SQ) 
and the hydroquinone (HQ).  
O
OOH
OOH
OH
O
OO
OpKa,HQ pKa,SQ+e–, H++e–, H+
+e––H+–2H+ 11  Watkins et  al. explored a different system, 
where 2,6 -dimethylbenzoquinone was used as th e 
pH mediator of choice and was employed in a gas -
fed electrolyzer.68 In their system, a poro us separator 
was soaked in the liquid electrolyte solution 
containing 10 mM 2,6-dimethyl benz oquinone  and 
10 mM of the equivalent hydroquinone and 
supported between two gas diffusion electrodes 
(depicted in Figure 3). In the ir system, the liquid 
electrolyte  satur ated separator  works in conjunction 
with metal catalyst -coated electrodes to effectively 
drive  a pH gradient across the cell. Using platinum 
(Pt) deposited electrodes, CO 2 was selectively transported from the feed gas side of the cell  (cathode)  to 
the collection side of the cell (anode) . They demonstrated CO 2 removal at the cathode and recovery at 
the anode from a simulated flue gas stream ( 14% CO 2, 3% O 2, and 87% N 2) with no transport of other 
gases detected . Although no energetic ef ficiencies were reported, large cell voltages were applied 
(between 1 –2.5 V for the Pt catalyst). Jin et al. estimate d that the required energy of this experimental 
demonstration  was ~ 600 kJ/mol CO 2.76 Additionally, the low quinone concentrations that were used due 
to solubility issues limited  the pH range  and thus CO 2 removal efficiency.  
3.2.2 Phenazines. Phenazines are another promising family of redox -active pH -mediator compounds. 
Analogous to quinones, phenazines reversibly undergo 2 H+, 2 e– PCET reactions over a wide pH range. 
Sulfonated phenazine der ivatives have also display ed high aqueous solution solubilities and stabilities . Jin 
et al. demonstrated use of 3,3’ -(phenazine -2,3-diylbis(oxy))bis(propane -1-sulfonate) in a pH -swing system 
for carbon capture.69 In the absence of CO 2, the pH was increase d from 4 to 13.4  using 0.1 M phenazine 
concentration , and then cycled between a pH of 13.4 and 7.5 over four total cycles. When a continuous 
flowing stream of a CO 2/N2 mixture (CO 2 partial pressure of 0.465 bar) was contacted with the electrolyte, 
they observed a decrease  in CO 2 partial pressure down to ca. 0.38 bar following deacidificiation and  an 
increase  up to ca. 0.57 bar following acidification.  They cycled using a stream of 100% CO 2 during the 
desorption step to simulate more realistic operating conditions , where CO 2 must be released and 
concentrated to high purities . For their system set -up, Jin et al.  estimate d from thermodynamic 
calculations that a minimum of 16 –75 and 30 –75 kJ/mol CO 2 is required for capture from 10% and 
atmospheric CO 2 sources, respectively (8 –35% and 27 –67% energetic efficiency, respectively). Figure 3. General representation of a 
membrane -supported polymer system 
developed by Watkins et al. in ref. 65. Figure 
used with permission from the American 
Chemical Society.  
Figure 3.General representation of a membrane-
supported polymer system developed by Watkins, 
et. al. Figure adapted used with permission from 
Ref. XXthe American Chemical Society 12 Comparatively, experimental data indicates that their system can separate carbon dioxide from a mixture 
containing ca. 46.5% CO 2 with energy requirements in the range of 49 –120 k J/mol CO 2, depending on the 
operating current density. One limitation of this system , and pH -mediated processes for eCCC in general,  
is slow CO 2 absorption kinetics. In their specific demonstration, CO 2 absorption had to be continued for 
roughly 40 minutes  after completion of electrochemical deacidification .  
In another recent stud y, Xie et al.  utilized a series of phenazine PCET pH -mediators in a continuous 
flow eCCC setup (Figure 4).70 They 
identified  7,8-
dihydroxyphenazine -2-sulfonic 
acid as the most effective 
phenazine derivative . Using a  25 
mM phenazine concentration, 
capture from a simulated flue gas 
composition  (15:85 CO 2:N2) with  
an estimated energy consumption 
of 0.49 GJ/ ton CO 2 (22 kJ/ mol 
CO 2) and Faradaic efficienc y >95% 
was performed . Their estimated 
energetic efficiencies  are highly competitive with other CCC approaches, surpassing state -of-the-art 
amine capture systems.28, 29 However, CO 2 release during desorption was measured using a N 2 or argon 
(Ar) carrier gas, which is  not representative of a real system where carbon dioxide is released and 
concentrated to high CO 2 concentrations. Thus, energy requirements will be higher  and Faradaic 
efficiencies will be lower  than reported values in the study . Their system  display ed high stability  in the 
presence of CO 2 and N 2 over the tested time -scale ; Xie et al. estimated a capacity retention of 97.9% over 
8 capture -release cycles. However, they anticipate that this phenazine compound may be O 2-sensitive, 
which could significantly reduce its effective stability  under practical conditions . 
The same group (Xie et al.) has more recently demonstrated the use of the proton -carrier riboflavin 
5’-monophosphate sodium salt hydrate  at a concentration of 25 mM in aqueous solutio n as a PCET pH-
mediator in these types of systems.73 In a similar set -up, they demonstrated  CO 2 capture from a 15:85 
CO 2:N2 flue gas stream , with  estimated  energy requirement s of 9.8 kJ/mol CO 2 (~48% efficiency)  and 
Faradaic efficiencies  of >93% . Similar to their previous study, they used a carrier gas (N 2 or Ar)  during 
desorption . Therefore, expecte d energy requirements and Faradaic efficiency under more practical Figure 4. Continuous flow eCCC system featuring phenazine PCET pH -
mediators reported by  Xie et. al. Figure used with permission from Ref. 
67. 
 
 13 operation is currently unclear for this system.  This chemistry exhibit ed relatively good stability in the 
N2/CO 2 environment, with 0.39% capacity fade per cycle measured over 21 total cycle s; however, O 2 
stability was not reported. One current  limitation of this riboflavin derivative is its low solubility, which 
limits redox -mediator concentration and thus quantity of CO 2 that can be separated in each cell.   
3.2.3 Redox -Active Amine.  Hatton and coworkers recently investigated a system that uses a redox -
active amine for capture via pH swing. Cationic 1 -aminopyridinium nitrate was identified as a redox -active 
pH mediator  as it furnishes a reversible redox couple  in water . An aqueous 0.2  M 1 -aminopyr idinyl 
solution was reduced in the presence of N 2, then exposed to 100% CO 2.71 Full conversion to the radical 
had a 53% Fara daic efficiency with an estimated minimum energy consumption of 101 kJ/mol CO 2. 
However, the  authors  project ed that reducing conversion can enable lower energy requirements. Notably, 
they studied the stability of the radical in an oxygen ated  atmosphere ove r a period of one month. The 
radical was not stable over long periods of time, leading to capacity decreases of 6.6 and 46% over 1 and 
30 days, respectively. However, they also studied the radical in a nitrogen atmosphere and found that 
after 30 days, the capacity decreased to 55%. The authors conjecture that the radical may be reacting with 
itself to form 4,4’ -bipyridine.      
3.2.4 Inorganic Compounds. In a different approach, Rahimi  et al. propose d using manganese oxide 
(MnO 2) coated electrodes to act as heterogeneous PCET pH -mediator s, according to eq. 6, for CO 2 
capture .61 
MnO 2(s) + H+ + e- ⇌ MnOOH (s)      Eq. 6 
One benefit to this system is that ma nganese oxides  and hydroxides  (MnOOH)  are highly stable at various 
pH values a nd MnO 2 readily undergo es PCET  reactions in aqueous solutions.72 In this system  the pH 
mediator  is immobilized on the electrode surface  and requires batch -type operation, where the electrode 
polarity must be switched periodically to drive CO 2 capture and release via  proton intercalation and 
deintercalation  of the electrode s, respectively . A cell voltage of 1 V was applied, and polarity was switched 
every 2 hours for a total of 4 cycles (i.e., 8 hours), where ~0.4 mmol of  CO 2 was captured and recovered  
each cycle. Energetic efficiencies where not reported; however, Rahimi et  al. estimated with a simple 
modeling analysis that this pH -swing process could theoretically separate CO 2 from flue gas (15% CO 2) at 
an energetic cost of 33.2 kJ/mol CO 2 (~14% energetic efficiency).   
3.3 Cell and System Design  
Current studies involving pH swings  (and eCCC systems in general) mainly include  proof -of-concept 
demonstrations with candidate chemistries , which are important in early -stage research. However, there 
is less research involving characterization of cell performance and opt imization of experimental  14 configurations. T ransitioning towards higher performance pH -swing eCCC systems will require not only 
optimized redox mediator molecules, but also engineer ed cell/system designs which maximize CO 2 
separation capacity and simultaneo usly minimize losses associated with kinetics,  ohmics, and  mass 
transport. Here we briefly review current experimental cell designs  for electrochemical CO 2 separation 
processes which use a pH  swing , to contextualize where the field is at and highlight key areas for future 
work.  
A common experimental set -up employed for pH -swing systems  resembles  a redox -flow battery (RFB) 
(shown in Figure 4) . Both Xie et al. and Jin et al. used this type of set -up to test their phenazine and 
riboflavin chemistries, as previously described .77,70, 73 This type of system is comprised of a flow ce ll, two 
reservoir tanks  to contain the  positive and negative  electrolyte s (7-50 mL) , respectively,  and pumps to 
circulate the working and counter electrolytes through the cell  (Xie et al. reported using electrolyte flow 
rates of 200 mL min-1 ).The cell des ign employs porous carbon electrodes (typically paper, cloth, or felt) 
and engineered flow fields to deliver the electrolyte solution to the electrode. A membrane or separator 
is used to physically separate the two electrodes while enabling ions (e.g., Na+ or K+) to exchange between 
the electrolytes to maintain electroneutrality . This s etup  operates in a cyclic fashion  (charge / discharge  
cycles ), applying a current or cell voltage to deprotonate the mediator, then switching the direction of 
current flow or  electrode polarity to protonate the mediator. CO 2-containing feed gas (or sweep gas) is 
then contacted with the liquid electrolyte in the working -side reservoir  during and/or after the 
protonation (or deprotonation) half -cycle to enable CO 2 capture (or re moval) . Xie et al. used 4 cm2 
(geometric/projected area) graphite felt electrodes , serpentine  or flow -through flow field s, and a Nafion 
115 or 117 cation exchange membrane in their experiments .70, 73 Their cell was operated with applied 
current densities of 10 –30 mA cm-2, resultin g in average cell voltages of ca. 0.06 –0.2 V. While  these  low 
voltage s led to low energy requirements, the experimental system requires  validat ion with a pure CO 2 
sweep gas at the anode to understand performance under more realistic operating conditions. 
Additionally, a  key engineering  challenge for this cell set-up in its current form is a  relatively  high ohmic  
resistance  (2.48 Ω or 9.92 Ω cm2 measured with EIS ), which may induce large energetic penalties and/or 
limit achievable current densities.70 Jin et al.  reported a flow cell  consist ing of a Fumatech  cation exchange 
membrane  (E-620(K)) and 5 cm2 electrodes (although the electrode and flow field type were  not 
specified ).77 The cell was operated galvanostatically at 50 mA cm-2 with potential holds at the end of each 
half-cycle. Cell performance metrics (i.e., overpotentials or resistances) and challenges associated with 
this set -up were not direc tly discussed .  15 Wat kins et al. employed a different cell configuration , similar to  a fuel cell,  to test  solubilized quinone 
mediators .68 The system  utilized a gas -fed electrochemical reactor (shown in Figure 3 above ) which c ould 
operate in a continuous fashion. As described previously, the cell contain ed catalyst -coated gas diffusion 
electrodes and an electrolyte imbibed separator . Their electrodes consisted of Sigracet 25 BC  carbon 
paper with a hydrophobized microporous layer ( MPL), and they applied a catalyst layer on top of the MPL. 
Their separator was a hydrophilic porous polypropylene material  (Celgard 3501), which was soaked in 
liquid electrolyte before assembling and running the cell. The liquid electrolyte was an aqueous solution 
consisting of 10 mM of the quinone, 10 mM of the hydroquinone, and 1 M NaHCO 3 which served as both 
the sorbent and supporting salt . Flow fields (25 cm2) were employed to distribute and remove gases to 
and from the electrodes. Gases that were fed to their system on the capture (cathode) and release (anode) 
sides were pre-humidified , which is typically done in low-temperature fuel-cell technologies to prevent 
the membrane/separator from drying out.  Watson et al. explored the use of platinum, pal ladium, and 
ruthenium catalysts , and found  that platinum enabled the  greatest  CO 2 concentration change and 
suppressed water splitting across a range of cell potentials  (1–2.5 V) . Cell voltage requirements were high 
for this system  compared to the approache s mentioned above, without a clear understanding of what 
phenomena contribute d to this inefficiency (e.g., ohmic resistance, mass transport, etc.) . 
The MnO 2-based technology of Rahimi et al. makes  use of immobilized rather than solubilized pH 
mediators. In their demonstration, they used a liquid flow -based setup to test their MnO 2 mediator 
system. The platform was similar to the RFB -type systems described above, consisting of an  
electrochemical cel l to drive protonation/deprotonation, reservoir tanks to hold liquid electrolyte for the 
working and counter sides of the cell, and pumps to circulate electrolyte  between  the cell  and reservoirs . 
Their liquid -fed cell consist ed of 25.8 cm2 carbon cloth ele ctrodes (AvCarb)  coated with MnO 2 particles, 
parallel  flow channels to deliver electrolyte to the electrodes, and a  Selemion AM V anion exchange 
membrane .61 The flow channels also contain ed plastic baffles  to promote turbulence and  enhance mass 
transport by  specifically  disrupting boundary layer growth, preven ting channeling, and increas ing local 
velocity.78 Fabrication of the MnO 2 electrodes was demonstrated using two separate methods. The first 
was a casting method, where MnO 2 powder was synthesized using co -precipitation, and then a slurry 
containing this active species was cast onto a carbon -based, porous  substrate.79, 80 The second method 
involved electrodeposition of MnO 2 onto the substrate, which was shown to achieve more uniform  
deposition and higher capacitance (specific and geometric). Due to the use of redox mediators 
immobilized on the electrode surface, the cell must be operated in a batch mode , where polarity is 
switched in cycles to prevent the complete proton saturation and depletion of the electrodes ,  16 respectively. In this study , the cell adopted a symmetric f ormat with identical electrodes on either side, 
and the experiments were also started  with the same electrolyte concentrations. During each half-cycle, 
the cell was operated with a constant applied potential of ±1 V, while the measured current density  varied 
with in the range of ±0–2 mA cm-2. Absorption or desorption of CO 2 was carried out in a separate step 
following each electrolysis half -cycle by contacting the electrolyte with the feed or sweep gas.  Overall, the 
current cell format operated with high cell voltages and low operating current densities, and thus, cell 
optimization work woul d be beneficial.  
 
4. Electrochemically Mediated Amine R egeneration (EMAR)  
4.1 Overview  
As previously described , one of the most investigated  methods for CO 2 capture from power plant flue 
gas uses amine absorbents. The standard amine used for this method is monoethanolamine (MEA) since 
it has a high rate of CO 2 absorption , easy regeneration, and low replacement cost.81 In this process, the  
flue gas is bubbled through the amine solution in the absorber, where the amine effectively captures CO 2 
to form a carbamate. To release the CO 2, the carbamate  solution  is heated (~110 °C for MEA) in order to 
thermally break the amine -CO 2 bond.82 The released CO 2 is concentrated and coll ected. However, there 
are challenges with this traditional regeneration process, including  low energetic efficiencies  and 
degradation  of amines  at high temperatures . Thus,  the operational  temperature must be high  enough to 
break the bond with CO 2, but low enough that the amine does not degrade. As a result , the temperature s 
used  for the desorption process are not extreme enough to fully liberate the CO 2 bound to amines  and 
typically only half of the bound gas is released.83 Additionally, the narrow temperature range decreases 
the achievable energ etic efficiency of the process  due to greater Carnot  limitations . In order to increase 
the efficiency of CO 2 release , methods other than temperature swings have been investigated.  
Electrochemically mediated amine regeneration (EMAR) , developed by Hatton and co -workers , is a 
promising alternative to temperature swing amine regeneration. EMAR relies on the use of an absorbent 
blocker that is electrochemically activated and deactivated  to induce th e release of covalently bound CO 2 
from the amine . This process still capitalizes on  the affinity of amines for binding CO 2. However, when the 
blocker is activated , it will preferentially bind to the amine and displace  CO 2 from the carbamate.82-84 Since 
amine regeneration in EMAR is not temperature -driven, wh ere t he desorption temperature  is limited  due 
to thermal amine degradation, it can potentially  liberate 80 to 90% of the absorbed  CO 2.  17 The success of EMAR relies on the difference between binding constants of the amine -CO 2 and amine -
blocker complex. The amine and blocker should form a stable complex  with the equilibrium constant that 
is much larger than that of the amine with the CO 2. The standard blocker and amine used in EMAR are 
copper  and ethylenediamine (EDA) . These species both fit the designated requirements, such that once 
Cu2+ is present in solution t he amine will release CO 2 in favor of binding to copper. The equilibrium 
constants for EDA with CO 2 and Cu2+ are given below 82, 84 
 2EDA(aq)+Cu2+   𝐾𝐶𝑢   
⇌Cu(EDA)22+  𝐾Cu = 2.10 x 1018 (Eq. 7) 
 EDA(aq)+CO2(aq)   𝐾𝐶𝑂2   
⇌EDA(CO2)(aq) 𝐾CO2 = 4.90 x 104 (Eq. 8) 
 
The EMAR process is similar to the temperature driven  amine -based  solvent system , except the 
desorber is exchanged with an electrochemical cell  (Figure 5).82 EMAR begins with contacting flue gas with 
the amine solution in an absorber, where the CO 2 react s to form a carbamate. The carbamate solution 
then flows to the anode of the electrochemical cell where copper (Cu0) is oxidized to Cu2+ and dissolved 
into solution. The amine preferentiall y binds to Cu2+, liberating the CO 2, which is then collected. The 
copper -amine complex in solution is circulated back  to the cathode of the electrochemical cell where 
copper is reduced back to Cu0 and plated onto the electrode , effectively regenerating the  amine so the 
cycle can begin  anew.82-84  
4.2 Demonstrations  
Figure 5 . EMAR cycle in which  an 
amine -based solvent is brought into 
contact with simulated flue gas to 
form carbamate. The carbamate -rich 
amine -based solvent is pumped to 
the anodic compartment. Upon 
electrochemical oxidation, Cu2+ is 
introduced to the solution, and the 
Cu–amine com plex forms, releasing 
CO 2. The gas phase is separated, and 
the Cu –amine solution is pumped 
back to the cathodic compartment 
where Cu2+ ions are 
electrochemically plated onto the 
electrode, releasing —and, hence, 
regenerating —the amine. Reprinted 
with permis sion from the American 
Chemical Society from ref 79.   18 In early work for the EMAR process,  Stern et al.  compared fourteen different  amines that included 
monoamines, amino acids, and polyamines before narrowing the selection to just four polyamines  - 
ethylenediamine (EDA), triethylenetetramine (TETA), aminoethylethanolamine (AEE A), and 
diethylenetriamine (DETA) . Polyamines were selected as they are more likely  to chelate copper ions with 
high binding constants to form stable copper complexes. The other ten amines had a tendency to 
precipitate as salts, especially in the presence of CO 2, making them unsuitable candidates.85 The four 
polyamines were analyzed for their  preference for Cu2+ in the presence of CO 2, CO 2 loading capacity,  and 
open -circuit potential measurements. the amount of copper required to deactivate the amine was 
examined. It was found that for EDA, AEEA, and TETA , one equivalent of Cu2+ binds to each amine ; 
however, this ratio for DETA depended on  the copper loading  (which is proportional to  Cu2+ 
concentration ). At higher copper concentrations,  one DETA molecule binds to each Cu2+, and at  lower 
copper loading , two DETA molecules bind to each Cu2+. meaning that more copper is required to 
deactivate the molecule and release  CO 2. Commonly used amines theoretically have a CO 2 capacity of 0.5 
as carbamate formation results in a zwitterion, where two amines are required for every molecule of 
captured CO 2 (See Section 4.4). TETA, AEEA, and DETA all showed loading below 0.5, which could be 
caused by unreacted secondary amine groups present in these three polyamines. EDA, which has no 
secondary amine group, possessed a loading slightly over 0.5 likely due to the formation of bicarbonate, 
a common side reaction for primary amines.83 Lastly, the difference in the open -circuit potentials for a 
copper electrode under anodic and cathodic conditions was used to estimate the minimum energy 
needed for releasing and removing Cu2+ into solution . Here, the concentration of EDA and Cu2+ was 
identical at the two electrodes, and thus open -circuit potential differences arise from differences in CO 2 
concentrations at the electrodes. After these initial tests, EDA was selected  as the standard amine for use 
in EMAR due to its high CO 2 loading capacity  (likely due to a lack of secondary amine groups ). EDA has also 
been identified as a desirable candidate in the thermal -swing CO 2 capture systems ; however, the heat 
required for CO 2 desorption from EDA is too high to be economically practical .83 
Early bench -scale demonstrations of the EMAR system capture d and concentrat ed CO 2 from a pure 
feed stream (100%) of CO 2 with an energy requirement  of ≤ 100 kJ/mol CO 2 and Faradaic efficienc ies up 
to 80% .85, 86 Separation from streams with lower CO 2 concentrations was not performed  in this early 
system , as the copper swing of their benchtop system (i.e., conversion between Cu0 and Cu2+ in the 
electrochemical cell) was not high enough  compared to the concentration of CO 2 physically dissolved in 
solution. Advances in the EMAR cell design have resulted in significant performance improvements, as 
described in the following section. Additionally, more recent EMAR demonstrations have operated at an  19 elevated fluid temperature (55  °C), which enhanced electron transfer kinetics at each electrode and 
reduce CO 2 solubilities during desorption.87, 88 ,82 The current bench -scale process can capture CO 2 from a 
15% CO 2 feed stream  (N2 balance) , while operating at 40 –80 kJ/mol CO 2.87 The system has also 
demonstrated stable operation for 50 hours.  
Liu et al. studied the use of MEA rather than EDA in a thermal -electrochemical co -driven system 
(TECS),  where they essentially  combin ed the more commonly used amine from thermally driven CO 2 
capture and EMAR .62 This system  parallel s the EMAR scheme described above (Figure 5) , with MEA binding 
to CO 2 and then Cu2+ being introduced electrochemically; however, a thermal step is also used. After Cu2+ 
ions have been stripped and dissolved , the solution is heated to 90 °C to assist in the removal of CO 2 from 
MEA.89 The additional heat is needed in TECS likely because the solubility of copper in MEA -based 
solutions  is moderately low, leading to insufficient Cu2+ concentrations in solution to displace CO 2 in all of 
the MEA -CO 2 present.84 One challenge Liu et al. encountered was the reduction of Cu -MEA —and thus the 
regeneration of Cu0 and MEA —was slow. Adjusting Cu2+ concentration , CO 2 loading, temperature, and 
KNO 3 concentration of the system decrease d the charge transfer resistance and improved kinetic s. 
Further, i ncreasing the Cu2+ concentration and temperature  improved mass transfer and thus reduced the 
associated overpotential . A combination of data from experimental techniques (cyclic voltammetry, 
potentiodynamic polarization, and electrochemical im pedance spectroscopy) and a regression analysis  
found  that the optimum operating conditions for this TECS system are a Cu2+ molality of 0.25 mol/kg, CO 2 
loading of 0.37 mol CO2 /mol amine, a temperature of 90 °C, and KNO 3 molality of 1 mol/kg. Under these 
conditions, the regeneration energy consumption is predicted to drop to 1.3 GJ /t CO 2 (63 kJ / mol CO 2).89 
These conditions  can enable higher energetic efficiencies  than traditional amine regeneration process es, 
which typically require >2.3 GJ / ton CO 2 (>110 kJ / mol CO 2).24-27 These efficiencies are  also comparable 
to estimated energy requirements of Wang et al. for their lower temperature EMAR system (with EDA) of  
40 – 80 kJ / mol CO 2.87 
4.3 Cell and System Desig n 
The EMAR process , pioneered by Hatton and co -workers,  is arguably the most developed redox -
mediator -based method  for eCCC in the peer -reviewed  literature , as there have been several bench -top, 
flow -cell level demonstrations , as well as engineering assessments regarding cell design metrics . 66 70 83 85, 
86, 87 90 91 84 90   In an ea rly embodiment, the EMAR cell consisted of copper plate electrodes and a porous 
polypropylene separator (Celgard 3501) to physically separate the cathodic and anodic electrolyte 
solutions while maintaining an ionic connection. Liquid -phase reactants were f ed to the cathode and 
anode using parallel flow channels  with  a rectangular cross -section.  As described above, early  20 demonstrations with this flow cell captured CO 2 at ≤ 100 kJ/mol CO 2.85, 86 This prototype cell had a  
relatively  low operating current density (5 mA cm-2) and was limited by low swings in copper loading (i.e., 
conversions) , resulting in less than  1% of bound CO 2 being released per pass  in the electrochemical cell .85, 
86,90 
Analysis of the EMAR cell using two -dimensional (2D), convection -diffusion modeling of the planar 
electrodes has suggested large mass transport limitations emerge with increased conversion per pass. 
Specifically, the model predict s the development of a thick boundary layer in the flow direction, which , in 
turn, leads to a n increase in the cell voltage at relative ly low current densities (<8 mA cm-2), where the 
cell enters a mixed kinetic -mass transfer regime.90 This limitation can be overcome by increasing the 
electrolyte flow rates , albeit at the expense of conversion pe r pass.  Wang et al. estimate that current 
densities greater than 50 mA/cm2 could be achieved with improved mass transport properties of the cell.91 
When tested with galvanostatic experiments (10 mA/cm2), increasing the flowrate from 75 to 225 mL/min 
reduced cell voltage by 20%, albeit at the expense of Cu0/Cu2+ conversion  per pass  and thus CO 2 separation 
capacity . Additionally,  large baffles (a form of turbulence promote rs) were incorporated into the flow 
channels of an EMAR cell , which  led to a 25% reduction in cell voltage, similar to the effect of increasing 
flow rate but without decreasing conversion  per pass . However, a consequence of such obstructions  is 
increased  pressure drop through the cell .92 More recent  generations of  EMAR cell s have incorporated a 
pin-type flow channel, with rubber dots arranged in a regular pattern. These cells have exhibited 
significant performance improvements compared to earlier versions , but it is unclear if and how much the 
flow channel has contributed to this due to concurrent changes to the cell/system design and operating 
procedure .87 
In addition to flow channels, optimizatio n of the electrode geometry will also play a role in improving 
cell performance. Currently, 2D planar electrodes are used in EMAR. However, in many fields, three -
dimensional (3D) porous electrodes have been adopted to enhance performance.93,94,95 Overall, these 
porous electrode structures have a significantly higher reaction area per volume, which permits cell 
operation at higher geometric current densities with reduced overpotentials compared to planar 
electrodes.96 In modeling the EMAR system, Stern et al. estimated that a cell with porous electrodes could 
operate with overpotentials > 50% lower than a cell with  planar electrodes.83 Whe n tested, the use of 
porous copper foam electrodes within the EMAR cell enabled higher Faradaic efficiencies and lower cell 
resistances, however , performance diminished over a few hours.90 They believe this failure was due to 
bubble formation and entrapmen t within the electrochemical cell. To the best of our knowledge, no 
further work using porous electrodes within the EMAR cell has been published  to date.   21 Issues associated with plating and stripping copper have also hindered system feasibility and cell 
performance. During operation , the current density is not uniformly distributed across the electrode 
leading to spatially -varying metal deposition on the cat hode and stripping from the anode. Accordingly,  
authors reported sanding or completely replacing both electrodes  between experiments.90, 97 While less 
of a concern for exploratory studies at the bench -scale, if unaddressed, electrode degradation has the 
potential to become a significant maintenance challenge during practical implementation . Furthermore, 
as current density is increased and mass transport limitations emerge, dendritic copper growths can occur 
during plating. These deposits can become more powder -like as the cell approaches a mass transport 
controlled regime.98 In a cell with convective flow, these more loose ly-bound deposits may be sheared 
away from the surface,99 resulting in a permanent loss of copper electrode mass over time. Additionally, 
dendritic copper growths from the electrode surface can puncture the membrane/separator and come 
into contact with the opposite electrode , resulting in an internal short circuit.86 Early EMAR cell designs 
incorporated a woven cotton  cloth (cheesecloth) between the membrane/separator and solid electrode 
to provide support and prevent this type of contact.83, 86 Use of this material, however, significantly 
increased the ohmic resistance of the cell. Incorporation  of a structured  flow field (as described above) 
not only enhanced mass transport, but also better supported the membrane/separator such that 
supporting cloth was not required to prevent contact between the electrode and membrane/separator. 
This arrangemen t also reduced the ohmic resistance of the cell from 0.6 Ω to 0.0289 –0.14 Ω, which led to 
concomitant  decreases in estimated energy requirements for CO 2 separation.78, 86, 87 The 
membrane/separator itself also introduces ohmic losses, which depend on membrane/separator class 
(ion-exchange membrane or porous, non -selective separator) and material . While earlier EMAR 
demonstrations have mos tly used porous, non -selective separators , more recent studies have instead 
reported using anion -exchange membranes . However, there is no indication of whether this has resulted 
in performance enhancement.82, 87 
The discussed studies have led to advances in EMAR cell /system  design, which have allowed for 
significant performance improvements. The improved cell platform afforded lower cell overpotentials and 
thus improved energetics (40 –80 kJ/mol CO 2), as well as greater copper loading swings leading to higher 
regeneration capacities (0.12 –0.62 mol CO 2/mol EDA).  Despite these advances, cell operation is still 
limited by relatively  low curren t densities  and challenges with copper plating/stripping.  
4.4 Computational Insight into Amine/CO 2 Binding  
The strength by which a particular amine binds the CO 2 molecule is a decisive factor governing the 
efficiency of both thermal swing and EMAR technolo gies. Amines that exhibit stronger CO 2 binding can  22 enable higher removal rates of CO 2, but may require more energy to release CO 2 and regenerate the 
solvent. However, the seemingly simple process of formation of a carbamate through the reaction of an 
amine with CO 2 is more complicated due to intermediate reactions following the initial CO 2 uptake.   
Computational modeling has provided insight into the stability of possible reaction intermediates  and 
energetic barriers for their interconversion and decom position .100-102 Modeling has also been used to 
understand how substituent effects  are correlated with binding energies, basicities, or nucleophilicities  
of the CO 2-binding centers , and also how hydrogen -bonding  can influence these trends . However, not all 
fundamental aspects of CO 2 absorption by amine functionalities have been resolved. There is now a clear 
consensus that the reaction is assisted by participation of the solvent (water) molecules, which play a 
critical role in the stabilization o f reaction intermediates, regardless of their chemic al nature. The 
insufficient modeling of the solvent environment has thus  led to inconsistencies in the theoretical 
models , resulting in contrasting conclusions .  
In the pioneering work s on the MEA -CO 2 binding mechanism, Da Silva and Svendsen103 and Shim et 
al.104 suggested  that the carbamate product is formed via a single -step, third -order reaction mechanism. 
The CO 2 molecule is proposed to bind to one MEA molecule and concurrent deprotonation by a second 
MEA increases its basicity ( Figure 6A). Alternatively, another base or a solvent molecule can substitute 
the second MEA molecule in the mechanism. In another study,105 Da Silva and Svendsen recognized a 
significant stabilization of both the zwitterioni c intermediate and the carbamate by the solvent 
microenvironment  and suggest ed that a zwitterionic intermediate (initially thought to be a transition -
state structure) may be present in the (two -step) mechanism ( Figure 6B), although it would likely be 
short -lived.  
Arstad et al. proposed another mechanism for MEA -CO 2 binding,106 in which the carbamic acid is 
formed from the same zwitterionic intermediate through a proton -relay mechanism. In such a pathway, 
proton transfer is assisted by a solvent (water) molecule, or an additional amine species ( cf. Figure 6C).  
A:  
  
B:  
   23 C:  
  
Figure 6. Three suggested reaction mechanism s for CO 2 absorption by MEA : (A) MEA binds one CO 2 
molecule and concurrent deprotonation by a second MEA form s a carbamate ; (B) MEA binds one CO 2 
molecule to form a short -lived zwitterionic intermediate which is followed by deprotonation by another 
base (e.g., amine) or solvent to form a carbamate; ( C) MEA  binds one CO 2 molecule to form a short -lived 
zwitterionic intermediate which is followed by a proton transfer from a solvent (water) or amine 
molecule to form carbamic acid.  
 
Sumon et al. advocated for the use of a more advanced semi -explicit solvation model to obtain 
accurate energetics, and they included up to 20 water molecules in a hydrogen -bonded cluster around 
the solutes.107 A further improved model inclu ded the dynamical behavior of the systems obtained from 
the molecular dynamics. This approach is significantly more demanding, as the advanced evaluation of 
the free energies along with the sampling of the solvent configurational space is required. As an exam ple 
of this approach, both mechanisms in Figures 6a and 6b were re -evaluated by Xie et al.108 Based on ab 
initio  calculations (at the CCSD(T) level of theory) combined with quantum mechanics/molecular 
mechanics/molecular dynamics simulations (QM/MM/MD), the authors concluded that the two -step 
reaction mechanism to form a carbamate throug h a zwitterionic intermediate ( Figure 6B) is the most 
likely, contrasting with the ‘carbamic -acid’ pathway. In accordance with the barrier obtained from the 
experiment, they observed the rate -limiting step to be associated with the MEA(CO 2) formation at ca . 12 
kcal/mol, which was primarily attributed to the breaking of the hydrogen -bonding network around the 
CO 2 molecule to initiate binding to MEA.  
Employing the (DFT -based) ab initio  molecular dynamic simulations (AIMD), the stability and mutual 
interconver sion of the reaction intermediates along the two -step CO 2 capture process from Figure  6B 
(CO 2 + MEA → zwitterion → carbamate) was also studied.109-114 More specifically, Han et al. observed 
rapid deprotonation of the zwitte rionic intermediate, forming a stable carbamate species,109 which was 
recognized as the principal driving force for CO 2 absorption. Noticeably, the same zwitterion → 
carbamate transformation was also supported by the unbiase d AIMD,110 allowing estimation of the 
zwitterionic intermediate lifetime to be ca.  100 ps.  24 To some extent, complementary results were later acquired by Guido110 and by Hwang,109 which 
focused on  the stability of the zwitterionic intermediate with respect not only to the zwitterion 
deprotonation (i.e., carbamate formation) but also to CO 2 removal (i.e., MEA regeneration). A delicate 
balance between the competing pathways was identified in both of the studies, which was deemed to 
be further complicated by significant temperature and entropic effects  that contributed to the free 
energies from extensive reorganization of the solvent microenvironment. The solvent participation was 
shown to go far beyon d the first solvation shell, providing further evidence of the inadequate use of the 
continuum (even semi -explicit) solvation models.  
The tight balance between zwitterion → carbamate and zwitterion → CO 2 + MEA competition was 
also acknowledged  in investig ating CO 2 release from carbamate.113 Since the calculations revealed that 
the process is too energetically demanding, the authors made use of the reversibility of the reactions, 
proposing that CO 2 release is accomplished by (i) regeneration of the zwitterionic intermediate by 
carbamate protonation by MEA(H+), and (ii) CO 2 release from the zwitterionic intermediate (i.e., reverse 
of the reaction  pathway  B in Figure 6). 
Finally, Matsuzaki et al. investigated the mechanism for the formation of the bicarbonate product.115 
Based on the ab initio  calculations along with the PCM solvation model, they suggested that the 
formation of the carbamate intermediate ( Figure 6B) is followed by its protonation in the next step, 
yielding the carbamic acid. The carbamic acid is then speculated to further undergo an attack by OH‒, 
releasing the bicarbonate and free MEA.  
Other studies – not directly focused on the mechanism of the CO 2-amine interaction – were carried 
out to scr een the additional effects of molecular structure (e.g., amine substitutions), solvent 
environment, temperature, and other experimental conditions. A few examples include the calculations 
of various amines’ basicities and their correlation with the CO 2 interaction energies (stability of the 
carbamate intermediate) and/or the reaction kinetics.105, 116 -119 Naturally, the electron -withdrawing 
groups weaken ed CO 2 binding efficiency as their basicity decreased , and vice versa . In addition, Orestes 
et al. proposed that higher basicity implies greater stability of the zwitterionic intermediate, and 
therefore, suggested that highly basic amines (such as guanidines) may provide relatively stable 
zwitterions with prolonged lifetime s.116 This greater st ability indicates a stronger bond with CO 2 to form 
the carbamate  through hydrogen atom transfer of the hydrogen atom bound to the amino nitrogen. Jhon 
et al. tried to evaluate steric effects to explain the contrasting patterns in the nucleophilicity of var ious 
amines and their reactivity , but further evaluation is needed to predict better CO 2-amine reactivities .120   25 Finally, Li et al. evaluated the performance of various exchange -correlation functionals for predicting 
the MEA -CO 2 interaction.121 The authors observed somewhat inconsistent results on  the optimized 
geometries and the corresponding energies based on the method that was utilized. In particular, the 
energetic minima seem to differ significantly when the MP2 or DFT optimizations were performed, which 
raises concerns as to the accuracy of t he ab initio single -point calculations carried out on top of the DFT 
optimized geometries. However, it seems that the ωB97XD functional can be recommended for both 
optimization and energetic purposes.  
In summary, the described theoretical studies have foc used on understanding  the binding 
mechanism between amines and CO 2. The primary/secondary amines are believed to react with CO 2 
molecules to provide carbamate species through the short -lived zwitterionic intermediate. The strength 
of the amine -CO 2 interact ion is regulated by the basicity (nucleophilicity) of the amines that can, in turn, 
be controlled by the introduction of the electron -donating/withdrawing substituents.  Theoretical studies 
have also indicate d the close participation of the solvent (water) molecules, as these species  can stabilize 
the free reactants (by forming a concise hydrogen -bonding network around them) or particular reaction 
intermediates (such as zwitterionic intermediate or carbamate) , or can function as proton relays to 
accept /donat e protons. Therefore, it comes as no surprise that solvent models that treat  water 
molecules explicitly (or semi -explicitly) exhibit more reliable results than simple continuum -based 
approaches. On the other hand, the mechanism of CO 2 release is still rela tively underexplored, as several 
contrasting reaction pathways have been  suggested.  
 
5. Redox -Active Capture Molecules  
5.1 Introduction  
Another  popular  approach to eCCC is the use of redox -active capture molecules , or redox carriers,  
that direct ly bind and release CO 2 upon oxidation or reduction  (i.e., direct eCCC methods) . Scheme  4 
illustrates  a generalized  direct eCCC cycle featuring a redox carrier .122 In the cycle, the molecule in the 
restin g state (R) is reduced to form the active state carrier species ( R𝑛−), where 𝑛 is the number of 
electrons transferred . The reduced species has a high affinity for CO 2 (𝐾1(𝑅𝑛−)), which allows for capture 
from a dilute inlet stream to form the CO 2-bound adduct, R(CO2)𝑞𝑛−. Here, 𝑞 represents the number of 
CO 2 molecules that bind to each capture molecule.  Release is triggered by  the oxidation of R(CO2)𝑞𝑛− to 
form  R(CO2)𝑞, which has a much lower affinity for CO 2 (𝐾2(R)), result ing in liberation of CO 2 to reform 
the resting -state carrier ( R) to complete the cycle. This approach takes advantage of the difference  26 between the binding affinity of the oxidized ( 𝐾2(R)) and reduced (𝐾1(𝑅𝑛−)) states of the carrier ( R and 
R𝑛−, respectively).  
 
Scheme 4. Redox -active capture molecules  for electrochemically -mediated CO 2 separation , adapted 
from Ref. 41.   
 
DuBois and coworkers were the first to publish  the use of redox -active capture molecules  for eCCC 
applications. Several classes of redox -active capture molecules were assessed using spectroscopic, 
voltammetric, and controlled potential electrolysis approaches to determine both the electrochemical  
reversibility of CO 2 binding and the  CO 2 equil ibrium constants of the oxidized and reduced forms.123,124 In 
these works , they outline desirable molecular properties of efficient CO 2 capture molecules. They 
propose that a capture molecule for direct eCCC must  have a site capable of CO 2 binding  and must also 
be able to undergo chemically reversible oxidation and reduction in the presence and absence of CO 2. 
Regarding these two points, they identified the importance of proximity of the redox center to the CO 2 
binding site. Shorter distances between the two sites resulted in large r changes in the binding affinity 
between oxidized and reduced states of the capture molecule. This is important because the difference 
in CO 2 binding affinity between the oxidized and reduced forms must be sufficiently large to enable  
sufficient CO 2 captu re from a given feed gas . One metric that can be utilized to evaluate if sufficient CO 2 
is captured from the feed gas is the Faradaic efficiency, or the moles of CO 2 separated per mole of 
electron transferred . Assuming complete activation/deactivation of a redox -active capture molecule 
(with total concentration [R]T), the upper bound on  𝜂faradaic  for a redox -active carrier / solvent system 
can be determined as follows:  
 𝜂faradaic=𝑞
𝑛(𝐾1(R2−)(𝐾H𝑃i)𝑞
1 + 𝐾1(R2−)(𝐾H𝑃i)𝑞−𝐾2(R)(𝐾H𝑃0)𝑞
1 + 𝐾2(R)(𝐾H𝑃0)𝑞)−𝐾H
𝑛[R]T(𝑃0−𝑃i)  Eq. 9  
 27 where 𝐾H is the Henry’s law constant for CO 2 in the solvent of choice, 𝑃i is the initial CO 2 partial pressure 
before separation, and 𝑃f is the final CO 2 partial pressure after separation and recovery (typically 1 atm). 
This expression for the Faradaic efficiency upper bound aligns with several previous works.124, 125, 126 
Considering an exampl e system with a 1 0% CO 2 stream (typical concentration from a coal -fired power 
plant flue gas)23, 28  and the following constant parameters ( [R]T = 1 M, KH = 0.175 M/atm, 𝐾2(R)≪1,𝑞 = 
1), a 𝐾1(R𝑛−) value of at least 6.3 x 102 is required to obtain ≥ 90% of the maximum Faradaic efficiency 
predicted with eq. 9 . Using the same equation, a 𝐾1(R𝑛−)  value of at least 1.6 x 105 is necessary to capture 
from atmospheric CO 2 sources (𝑃i = 410 ppm) with the same efficiency.  
In addition to impacting the Faradaic efficiency,  binding coefficients can also influence  system energy 
requirements due to their direct relation to the difference in standard potentials for the binding and 
release steps (ΔE = E°cathodic  - E°anodic ). More specifically, the ratio between the activated and deactivated 
capture molecule binding affinities , i.e., 𝐾1(R𝑛−)/ 𝐾2(R), is intrinsically proportional to ΔE according to 
eq. 10. 
−𝑅𝑇ln(𝐾1(R𝑛−)
𝐾2(R))=𝑛𝐹(∆𝐸)     Eq. 10 
Therefore , a higher binding affinity ratio, 𝐾1(R𝑛−)/ 𝐾2(R), will lead to higher cell voltages and thus greater 
energy requirements.  To further assess this tradeoff between system energy requirements and Faradaic 
efficiency, Clarke et al. defined a combined efficiency metric to highlight molecular properties (such as 
𝐾1(R𝑛−)) that may be effective to adequately balance this tradeoff.126 Their work also explores how these 
effective properties are dependent upon other system properties, such as system configuration.   
Beyond having ade quate CO 2 binding affinities while maintaining a minimal potential difference 
between binding and release steps, additional desirable characteristics  of capture molecules  include : 
rapid electron transfer kinetics, high solubility , stability of the carrier species towards other compounds 
present in a given feed gas composition  (e.g., oxygen, water vapor) , among others.42, 43, 125 Overall, several 
different classes of molecules have been identified and assessed as capture molecule candidates . 
Quinones are the most studied group of molecules, 110, 113, 127-131 but other redox -active capture species 
have been assessed as well, including transition -metal  complexes ,132 bipyridines,133-135 and thiols.136 In 
the following sections, several demonstrations involving different capture molecules  and solvents  will be 
discussed. Thes e demonstrations include primarily cyclic voltammetry and bulk electrolysis experiments 
to assess CO 2 binding/release capabilities, as well as a few engineered flow -cell systems.  
5.2 Mechanistic Insights  and Demonstrations   28 5.2.1 Quinones. In addition to acting as reversible PCET pH -mediators (as discussed  in Section 3 ), 
ortho - and para -benzo quinones can bind  CO 2 directly under aprotic conditions . CO 2 reacts with reduced  
quinone s at one or more anionic oxygen ato ms via an ECEC or EEC mechanism .128 An ECEC mechanism 
may be desirable  because the  quinone  capture s two CO 2 molecules, increasing the sorbent capacity. 
Additionally, capturing two CO 2 molecules per two electron transfers theoretically allows for Faradaic 
efficiencies of 100%.  ECEC or EEC mechanisms d epend on whether  CO 2 molecules  bind to the reduced 
species  in its radical anion ( QRA) and/or dianion ( QDA) forms  (Scheme 5).127-129 In general, quinones have 
displayed a wide range of affinity for CO 2; reported CO 2 binding constants for  quinone dianion s (𝐾CO2(DA)) 
have been report ed between ca. 10 – 1020,124, 128, 137 -141 which is summarized in Table 1. Numerous 
quinones  also bind CO 2 in their radical anion state ( QRA). However to date, 𝐾CO2(RA) values have only been 
reported for 9,10 -phenanthrenequinone and 2,6 -di-tert-butyl -1,4-benzoquinone.124, 137 The binding 
constants for both radical anions ( 𝐾CO2(RA)) were several orders of magnitude smaller than the 
corresponding values for the dianions ( 𝐾CO2(DA)). Although no other values of 𝐾CO2(RA) have been 
quantitatively determined, cyclic voltammetry suggests that 𝐾CO2(RA) is always much smaller than 
𝐾CO2(DA),124, 128, 129, 137, 138, 140 likely due to increased nucleophilicity o f the oxygen atoms in the dianion. The 
specific  value  for 𝐾CO2(RA), which represent s the thermodynamic favorability of CO 2 binding to a quinone 
radical anion species,  causes the disparity in  reported  mechanism s (EEC or ECEC) . A complication to this 
assessment, however, is if disproportionation of two QRA molecules transpires to create Q and QDA, which 
then reacts with CO 2; this may result in inflated values for 𝐾CO2(RA) and falsely suggest an ECEC 
mechanism if not properly consi dered .124, 142, 143   29  
Scheme 5. Direct electrochemical capture by quinones  by EEC mechanism (top) and ECEC mechanism 
(bottom) . 
 
Table 1. Reported r eduction p otentials for various quinone radical anion / dianion redox pairs ( E21/2) and 
associated  CO 2 binding constants  of the dianion species ( KCO2(DA) ). 
Quinone  Solvent  E21/2(N2)a E21/2(CO2) a ΔE1/2b Log(KCO2(DA) ) Ref. 
Tetrachloro -1,4-benzoquinone  DMF  –0.72  N/A N/A 3.8 120 
2,6-di-tert-butyl -1,4-benzoquinone  DMF  –1.46  N/A N/A 15.0  120 
9,10 -phenanthrenequinone  DMF  –1.19  N/A N/A 11.8  120 
2,3-dicyano -1,4-benzoquinonec DMF  –0.47  N/A N/A 3.8 121 
tetrafluoro -1,4-benzoquinone  DMF  –0.80  –0.50  0.30  4.3 135 
tetrabromo -1,4-benzoquinone  DMF  –0.88  N/A N/A 3.3 136 
2,3-dichloro -1,4-naphthoquinone  DMF  –1.21  N/A N/A 5.7 136 
2,5-bis(dimethylamino) -3,6-difluoro -1,4-
benzoquinone  DMF  –1.47  N/A N/A 11.6  136 
1,4-benzoquinonec DMSO  –1.05  0.00  1.05  16.9e 137 
anthraquinone  (AQ)  DMSO  –1.40  –0.65  0.75  11.8 e 137 
duroquinone  DMSO  –1.55  –0.33  1.22  19.9 e 137 
naphthoquinone  (NQ)  DMSO  –1.25  –0.40  0.85  13.5 e 137 
2,6-dimethyl -1,4-benzoquinone  DMSO  –1.40  –0.23  1.17  19.0 e 137 
O
OO
OO
O
O
OO
OE11/2 E21/2
E2’1/2KCO2(RA)R
RR
RR
RR
RR R
R R
R R
R RR
R RRO
O
O
OKCO2(DA)
K ’CO2(DA)R R
R R
R R
R ROOOO
OO
OO
O
OQ QRA
QRA(CO2)QDA
QDA(CO2) QDA(CO2)2QDA(CO2) 30 2, 6- dichloro - 1, 4-benzoquinone  MeCN  –0.94  –0.60  0.34  6.0 125 
2- chloro - 1, 4-benzoquinone  MeCN  –1.07  –0.58  0.49  10.0  125 
tetrafluoro -1, 4-benzoquinone  MeCN  –0.80  –0.62  0.18  3.8 125 
tetrachloro -1,4-benzoquinone  MeCN  –0.74  –0.63  0.11  2.5 125 
5-hydroxy - NQd** MeCN  –0.94  –0.71  0.23  3.3 125 
1, 8- dihydroxy - AQd** MeCN  –1.20  –0.94  0.26  5.4 125 
1, 2- dihydroxy - AQd** MeCN  –1.29  –1.08  0.21  4.6 125 
5, 8- dihydroxy - NQd** MeCN  –0.98  –0.91  0.07  2.1 125 
anthraquinone  MeCN  –1.56 –0.62  0.46  9.0 138 
1-hydroxy -AQ MeCN  –1.30  –1.18  0.20  5.1 138 
1,4-dihydroxy -AQ MeCN  –1.15  –1.14  0.01  1.1 138 
1-amino -AQ MeCN  –1.58  N/A N/A 8.3 138 
1,4-diamino -AQ MeCN  –1.63  N/A N/A 9.7 138 
1-amino -4-hydroxy -AQ MeCN  –1.41  –1.20  0.21  4.8 138 
2,3-dicyano -1,4-naphthoquinone  MeCN  –0.62  N/A N/A 1.7 136 
2,5-bis(dimethylamino) -1,4-benozquinone  MeCN  –1.23  N/A N/A 12.1  136 
tetra(dimethylamino) -1,4-benzoquinone  MeCN  –1.68  N/A N/A 11.6  136 
tetramethylester -1,4-benzoquinone  CHCl 3 –0.65  N/A N/A 2.5 136 
aPotentials are reported as V vs. SCE. Potentials recorded in MeCN were converted to SCE using Ref. 144  
b Reported in uni ts of volts and equal to the shift in half -wave potential in the presence and absence of 
CO 2 (ΔE1/2 =𝐸𝑜′ - 𝐸1/2 in eq. 11) .                           
cUndergoes Kolbe -Schmidt reaction with CO 2 as a decomposition pathway.                                                           
dFeatures intramolecular hydrogen -bonding interactions.                                                                                    
e Calculated using eq . 11 from  reported reduction potentials under N 2 and CO 2 atmospher e. 
 
Among the  multiple  classes of redox -active molecules first considered by DuBois and coworkers , 
quinones were the  most promising.  137   A wide variety of quinone candidates were screened in acetonitrile 
(MeCN) and dimethylformamide (DMF)  using both cyclic voltammetry and bulk e lectrolysis technique s. 
Of the large number investigated, only five showed reversible CO 2 binding and release with sufficient  CO 2 
binding affinities : 2,6-di-tert-butyl -1,4-benzoquinone ( DtBBQ ), 9,10 -phenanthrenequinone (PAQ), 
tetrachloro -1,4-benzoquinone ( TCQ), 2,3 -dicyano -1,4-benzoquinone, and 2,3 -dicyano -5,6-dichloro -1,4-
benzoquinone (DDQ) . Reduction potentials and values of 𝐾CO2(DA) (and some values of 𝐾CO2(RA)) were 
reported for each of the five quinones, however little mechanistic information was determined beyond 
the number of CO 2 molecules bound per quinone dianion.  
In 1989, Mizen and Wrighton reported the first mechanistic study of CO 2 binding to quinone 
dianions.127 Chemical reduction of PAQ by one or two el ectrons with cobaltocene or sodium metal  (to 
form PAQ●– or PAQ2–, respectively) , followed by addition of CO 2 resulted in the formation of a new species.  31 This species featured a 13C NMR peak between 156 -158 ppm in CD 3CN or DMSO -d6, suggesting formation 
of an alkyl carbonate. Infrared spectroscopy further confirmed this assessment, exhibiting carbonyl 
stretches at 1646 and 1686 cm-1 when cobaltocene was used as the reductant. Spectroelectrochemical 
infrared (SEC -IR) spectroscopy indicates the formation of a single carbonyl stretch at 1646 cm-1 upon 
reduction of PAQ to PAQ2–. The stretch observed at 1686 cm-1 was attributed to interactions with 
cobaltocenium cation, which is more likely to interact and stabilize the CO 2 adduct than the 
tetrabutyla mmonium cations present in SEC -IR studies. When the same experiments were repeated in 
the absence of CO 2, the 13C NMR and IR signals were not observed, which indicated CO 2 binding occurs at 
one or both anionic oxygen atoms upon reduction of PAQ to PAQ2–. With this information, along with the 
experimentally determined 2:1 ratio of CO 2:PAQ2–, Mizen and Wrighton proposed an ECEC mechanism for 
the reaction , whereby two molecules of CO 2 are bound through the two oxygen atoms of PAQ2–. 
Shortly thereafter , Ogura a nd coworkers reported a mechanistic study with several other quinones 
and CO 2 in MeCN.128 This study expanded upon the work of Mizen and Wrighton by includ ing 11 different 
quinones of varying electron density. Like PAQ, the quinones with more nucleophilic oxygen atoms bind 
two molecules of CO 2 via an ECEC mechanism. In contrast, t he less electron dense quinones did not  bind 
CO 2 in the radical anionic state and thus undergo an EEC to bind one molecule of CO 2 upon reduction to 
the dianion. Interestingly, the authors observed that there appeared to be a specific threshold potential 
for the first reduction (to form the radical anion) where the quinones switched between EEC and ECEC 
mechanisms . The proposed ECEC mechanism for 1,4 -anthraquinone (AQ), 1,4 -napthoquinone (NQ), 
duroquinone (DQ), and 2 ,6-dimethylbenzoquinone (DMQ) in MeCN by O gura  and coworkers contrasts 
with  the mechanism previously reported in dimethylsulfoxide by Simpson and Durand.140 Simpson and 
Durand propose d an ECE mechanism for each of the se quinones based on cyclic voltammetry; however 
the authors did not determine how many CO 2 molecules were  bound to the reduced quinone species. Due 
to the difficulty of differentiating ECE and ECEC mechanisms by cyclic voltammetry and without knowledge 
of either reaction stoichiometry or products formed,145 it is likely that the mechanism was incorrectly 
assigned and is in fact ECEC for these quinones.  In more recent work, naphthoquinone s have been 
determined to undergo ECEC or EEC mechanisms in ionic liquid solvents, similar to what has been 
previously observed in aprotic organic solvents .129  
To study the redox behavior and the reactivity toward CO 2 capture of p-benzoquinone (BQ) and 
tetrafluoro -p-benzoquinone (TFBQ), Namazian et al. employed  both experiments (cyclic voltammetry) 
and theory (ab initio calculations with the  G3MP2//B3LYP composite method with the CPCM solvation 
model ).138 Their cycli c voltammetry results  in DMF solvent  indicated  that BQ is likely to capture CO 2 after  32 the first reduction to BQ semiquinone  (BQ●–), whereas the TFBQ was proposed to react with CO 2 only 
after the two -electron reduction  (TFBQ2-) is accomplished (note that th is corresponds to the ECE and EEC  
mechanisms for BQ and TFBQ, respectively). In the article, the lower reactivity of the TFBQ semiquinone 
was explained based on the lower nucleophilicity of the quinone ’s oxygen atoms due to the presence of 
the electron -withdrawing fluorine atoms. The calculation of the lower charge on the oxygen  atoms in 
TFBQ●– was performed as a confirmation. The BQ and TFBQ w ere also compared in the regioselectivity 
of CO 2 binding. Both  theory and experimental work indicate that TFBQ2- binds CO 2 at the oxygen atom, 
forming a carbonate product (note that the carbonate was calculated to be favored by ~  88 kJ/mol over 
the carboxylate) . Comparatively, theory predicts that BQ prefers carboxyl ate (carbon -bound CO 2) over 
the carbonate product by ~  10 kJ/mol. However, these findings conflict with previous experimental 
observation s, and they speculated that this difference may be due to kinetic s, as the  formation of the 
carbonate product may be a faster reaction  than the that to form the more stable carboxylate product . 
While formation of a carboxylate versus a carbonate does not affect the overall mechanism (i.e., EEC or 
ECE) in theory, it is unclear if and how the resulting product  would impact o verall performance of a redox 
active capture molecule. Fan et al. revisited the BQ reactivity by comparing the properties of the most 
stable carboxylate species obtained from the calculations with the experimental infrared absorption , and 
notably, the auth ors’ findings were in agreement .146 
Naphthoquinones undergo ECEC or EEC mechanisms in ionic liquid solvents, similar to what has been 
observed in aprotic organic solvents.129 Jin and coworkers used a spectroelectrochemical approach to 
elucidate the mechanism and site of binding for CO 2 capture with NQ, 2 -chloro -1,4-napthoquinone (CNQ), 
and 2,3 -dichloro -1, 4-napthoquinone (DCNQ). Upon two electron reductions of NQ to the dianion (NQ2–) 
under CO 2, a ca rbonyl stretch is observed at 1634 cm-1 via spectroelectrochemical infrared spectroscopy 
(SEC -IR). The IR band is consistent with a carbonate species and is not present when the experiment is 
repeated in an inert N2 atmosphere. This result suggests that CO 2 binds to NQ2- through the anionic oxygen 
atoms, similar to what was previously observed with PAQ2- in MeCN.127 Using cyclic voltabsorptometry 
(CVA) and derivative cyclic voltabsorptometry (DCVA) , the authors concluded  that reaction of CO 2 with 
NQ follows an ECEC mechanism using. Monitoring the IR spectrum during CVA and DCVA experiments, it 
was observed that the CO 2 binds to the radical anion (NQ●–) prior to being reduced to the dianion, where 
it could  then bind a seco nd molecule of CO 2. The overall reaction stoichiometry of NQ with CO 2 was further 
confirmed using a similar method used by Ogura and coworkers.128 When the solution was oxidized, the 
carbonate stretch at 1634 cm-1 disappear ed, with the growth of a peak at 1671 cm-1 corresponding to NQ. 
This pattern was observed across multiple consecutive scans, indicating that binding and release is  33 reversible. When these experiments were repeated for CNQ and DCNQ, similar results were observed; 
however, both quinones only bind one mole cule of CO 2 through a  proposed  EEC mechanism.  
While thermodynamic data exists for CO 2 binding with various quinone dianion species and some 
anion species, much less kinetic information has been reported. Yet, CO 2 reaction kinetics will play an 
important r ole in overall system performance  as they will  influenc e the rate of CO 2 binding/release and , 
consequently, the  design and performance of associated process units (e.g., absorption column). In early 
work, Wrighton and Dubois investigated the kinetics of bi nding between quinones ( PAQ and DTBBQ, 
respectively) and CO 2 following reduction. Using chronoamperometric techniques, they obtained second 
order rate constants of 96 and 19.1 M-1s-1 for PAQ●– in MeCN and DtBBQ●– in DMF, respectively.124, 127 
Durand and coworkers performed a kinetic investigation of CO 2 binding with a series of quinones in a 
single solvent.140 Using rotating disk voltammetric methods, the second order rate cons tants for five 
quinones were determined, ranging between 46 to 350 M-1s-1 in DMSO. The second order rate constants 
were derived using digital simulations based on data obtained under pseudo -first order conditions , 
instead of by varying the concentrations o f CO 2 as was done in prior studies . Results from the five quinones 
indicate that there may be a relationship between the first (more oxidative) reduction potential and CO 2 
binding rate constant, such that more negative reduction potentials (more nucleophil ic quinones) 
correspond with faster binding. However, relatively large errors in the rate constants and the small data 
set prevents analysis of any observed trends. While it is currently unclear what rate constant values will 
be required or optimal, there are indications for how rate constants could impact CO 2 binding selectivity. 
From the limited data reported for quinone CO 2 reactivity, protonation is confirmed to be kinetically 
favored.140, 143 For example, protonation of anthraquinone has been observed to be twice as fast as CO 2 
binding in DMSO.140 If an electrochemical se paration process requires CO 2 removal from a mixture with 
high water vapor concentrations, relatively slow CO 2 binding kinetics (as compared to protonation) could 
significantly reduce capture molecule effectiveness. Thus, careful matching of solvent and qu inone p Ka 
values and/or preclusion of acidic proton sources are necessary to prevent kinetic inhibition of eCCC due 
to protonation.  
In addition to these mechanistic studies, quinones have also been cycled  over longer time scales  using 
controlled potential electrolysis  or other electrochemical  cells to quantitatively demonstrate CO 2 capture 
and release. Scovazzo et al . first report ed a successful proof -of-concept CO 2 capture -release system for 
direct eCCC, which used solutions of DtBBQ in either propylene carbonate or 1 -butyl -3-methylimidazolium 
hexaflurophosphate ionic liquid ([bmim][PF 6]).125 Using a closed -system bulk electrolysis  set-up, t he 
authors demonstrated that direct eCCC  from very dilute (< 1%) inlet streams was plausible  and that the  34 overall CO 2 concentration could be increased to near 100% upon oxidation in a single pass. Using 30 mL 
of the propylene carbonate solution (0.30 M DtBBQ and 0.75 M tetrabutylammonium tetraflu oroborate 
supporting electrolyte), 120 mL of pure CO 2 was captured and then released from an incoming 0.5% CO 2 
inlet stream. Successful capture, release, and concentration was also performed  using [bmim][PF 6] as the 
solvent and electrolyte . However , the low concentration  of DtBBQ compared to  the solubility of  CO 2 in 
[bmim][PF 6] (0.05 M versus 0.08 M/atm , respectively) resulted in a less impressive concentration swing, 
which ranged between 7% to 33% initial and final concentrations.  In the two  demonstrations , 0.427 and 
0.454 moles of CO 2 were released per mole of e lectron  in PC and [bmi m][PF 6], respectively , resulting in 
Faradaic efficiencies of ~43%  and ~45% . These Faradaic efficiencies  compare well to the maximum 
Faradaic efficiency of 50% for DtBBQ,  as it requires two -electron processes for binding and release, but 
only  one molecule of CO 2 is bound to the dianion.  The estimated energetic efficiency of the system is 
unclear , as no electrode potential difference between the capture and release steps  was reported. 
However, typical bulk electrolysis cells  (often referred to as “H -cells”) , as such, are non -optimized for high 
performance operation, and thus , any reported energetic efficiency would likely not be representative of 
this system’s potential.  
Hatton and coworkers developed a more engineered cell architecture by using polymeric quinone -
based electrodes for eCCC processes  (Figure 6) .147 Their approach, coined “electro -swing reactive 
adsorption” (ESA), u ses a carbon fiber cathode coated in a suspension of carbon nanotubes (CNT s) and a 
polymeric anthraquinone ( p-AQ) that adsorbs CO 2 directly to the electrode surface upon reduction. To 
complete the cell, a carbon fiber anode coated in CNT and polyvinyl ferrocene was used . In their first 
demonstration, the ionic liquid 1 -butyl -3-methylimidazolium bis(trifluorosulfonyl)imide ([bmim][Tf 2N]) 
served as both the solvent and supporting electrolyte. The Faradaic efficiency of the system was 90% 
based on cycling experiments performed in a sealed container under 100% CO 2 atmosphere. In th is 
demonstration , the cell potential was controlled and switched  between -1.3 and 0.5 V while the 
headspace pressure was monitored to track CO 2 uptake and release by the p-AQ electrode. In addition to 
sealed cell measurements, an open cell setup was used where a dilute CO 2 stream was passed through an 
adsorption bed composed of multiple cells. In this setup, the p-AQ electrodes performed  quantitative 
capture from 10% CO 2 inlet streams, with  over 80% capture was observed with inlet stream 
concentrations a s low as 0.6%. Additionally, the system was quite robust, with only  ~30% degradation 
after 7000 capture/release cycles.  Based on the applied potential difference and Faradaic efficiency (90%), 
the reported system energy requirements were 90 kJ/mol CO 2 for CO 2 removal and recovery from a 10%  35 concentration . Based on the reported 
values, t he experimental energetic 
efficiency of the system is estimated to 
be ca. 6% (given that a 10% to 100% 
swing for a case o f “skimming” requires 
5.7 kJ/mol CO 2).  The authors also 
hypothesize that after several cycles, Δ E 
can be dropped to 500 mV where ~60% 
of the quinone species are  activated for 
capture . Although it was never evaluated 
experimentally, dropping Δ E to 500 mV i s 
estimated to lower the energetic 
requirement to ~43 kJ/mol CO 2 (~13% energy efficiency).  
More recently, Hatton and coworkers have used their p-AQ electrodes with “water -in-salt” electrolyte 
mixtures in place of ionic liquids.148 Large concentrations of lithium bis(trifluoromethylsufonyl)imide 
(LiTFSI) in water result s in a significant extension of the electrochemical window, such that  p-AQ could be  
reduced and oxidized while minimizing solvent or electrolyte side reactions. Due to the reduced 
concentration of “free -state” water present in 20m LiTFSI at pH 4, protonation of the reduced p-AQ 
species was suppressed  (where m is molality) . Due to high su pporting salt concentrations, t his reactivity  
runs counter to what has been observed with other quinones in aqueous media74, 75 as well as what was 
observed with p-AQ electrodes in 1m NH 4NO 3 at the same pH. Limited proton availability also result s in a 
more anodic potential for the oxygen reduction reaction, decreasing the sensitivity of p-AQ to O 2. 
Additionally, u nlike other reported examples of quinones in the presenc e of alkali metals ,149-154 the 
reduction potential of p-AQ does not shift anodically with increasing concentration of LiTFSI (from 1 to 
20m) under an inert N2 atmosphere . When CO 2 was introduced, the reduction peak did shift  anodically, 
indicating the formation of the CO 2 adduct, quinone bis(carbonate) , which is oxidized at more positive 
potentials than the p -AQ dianion.  Increasing concentrations of LiTFSI under CO 2 resulted in increased 
separation between the reduction and oxidation potentials , which was attributed to sta bilization of p-AQ 
CO 2 adducts by LiTFSI , as confirmed by DFT.147 Using their electro -swing operation strategy with a custom 
“zero -gap” flow cell, CO 2 binding and release cycles were performed at currents up to 2 mA cm-2 (2 A g-1). 
While operating under constant current conditions of 0.5 mA cm-2, the authors report an energetic 
requirement of ~56 kJ/mol CO 2 for their system in 20m LiTFSI, an improvement over the demonstration  
Figure 6.  Faradaic electro -swing system with a polymeric 
anthraquinone electrodes for direct eCCC  developed by Voskian 
and Hatton. Figure used from ref. 144 under the CC BY 3.0 
license.  
 36 in [bmim][PF 6], as described above.  Based on the reported energy requirement for capture from an initial 
CO 2 concentration of 15%, an estimated overall efficiency of at least ~8% is calculated (given that a 15 -
100% swing requires a minimum of 4.7 kJ/ mol CO 2 for the case of “skimming”).  The system displayed the 
same excellent stability that was previously observed in [bmim][PF 6], while also operating in the presence 
of oxygen . A faradaic efficiency of o ver 95% was averaged over 75 cycles in 20m LiTFSI under a gas 
composition of 15:3:82 CO 2:O2:N2. Hatton and coworkers continued to add alkali metals , albeit at lower 
concentrations (1 M NaTFSI),  in their work with 2,3 -Di-(2-(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy) -1,4-
naphthoquinone , also referred to as a liquid quinone .{Diederichsen, 2022 #1289}  Here, they 
demonstrated capture from a 15% CO 2 mixture  (85% N 2), operating at ca. 70% Faradaic efficiency (defined 
as CO 2 capacity  utilization  efficiency) while maintaining relatively low levels of efficiency decay over 10 
cycles. When 5% O 2 was added to the mixture, efficiency  losses were increased, and thus the  authors  
emphasized that understanding O 2 reduction rates in this system will be a focus of future work. They also 
developed a continuous flow lab -scale test system and demonstrated CO 2 capture and release from a pure 
CO 2 stream (due to limitations on quinone conversion) and estimated that cell energy requirements could 
be in the range of 35 –220 kJ/mol CO 2.  
Recently, to address the observed instability of quinone carriers in the presence of O 2, Zito et al.  
investigated the validity of the proposed linear relationship between the second reduction potential and 
CO 2 binding constant of quinones .139 In their work, they synthesized and tested the ability of seven  new 
quinones to capture CO 2 in their dianion states. The measured 𝐾CO2(DA) were in the range of ca. 50‒1012 
and followed the trend of decreasing reduction potentials  with increasing 𝐾CO2(DA). The experimental 
investigation was complemented by large -scale DFT calculations oriented on u nderstanding how the 
substituent effects  on the quinone scaffold  influence  the key thermodynamic properties ( such as 
reduction potentials and CO 2 binding  constants ) through steric and electronic effects. Overall, Zito et al.  
found that the linear trend hol ds relatively well over a large range of reduction potentials, suggesting that 
additional  secondary interactions might be required to shift the reduction potentials more positive than 
the O 2 reduction reaction . This could be achieved, e.g.,  via auxiliary binding charged groups  or hydrogen 
bond donors .  
The effects of hydrogen bond donors  was probed b y Barlow et al. who demonstrated that use such  
additives indeed shift s the reduction potential of the redox -active capture molecule to more posi tive 
potentials .155 Different alcohols were add ed to tetrachloroquinone (TCQ)  in DMF to study the effect  of 
these hydrogen -bond donors on the reduction potential and the CO 2 binding affinity. Although  all alcohol 
additives resulted in a positive shift of the reduction potential, s tronger  hydrogen -bonding interactions  37 inhibited  CO 2 binding, leading to smaller CO 2 binding affinities, while moderate interactions  resulted in 
larger CO 2 binding affinities. Ethanol was identified as a hydrogen -bond donor that did not have 
deleterious effects  on the CO 2 binding affinity but enabl ed a favorable  shift in the reduction potential to 
values greater than that of O2 reduction . TCQ was tested via controlled potential electrolysis with the 
presence and absence of ethanol in the electrolyte mixture, where the reduced form of TCQ (TCQ2-) was 
oxidized and re -reduced in the presence of a simulated flue gas mixture (87:10:3 N 2:CO 2:O2). With ethanol 
as an additive, Barlow  et al.  showed improvements in the extent of electrochemica l CO 2 capture and 
concentration from flue gas concentrations in the presence of O 2. More specifically, with the addition of 
ethanol, the  estimated  Faradaic efficiencies during both oxidation/release and reduction/recapture step s 
were improved from  84% to 95% and 27% to 73%, respectively. The TCQ/ethanol pair was not tested over 
multiple cycles, so long term stability of this specific chemistry is unclear. However, this work 
demonstrates that hydrogen -bond donors can be added to an electrolyte to anodically shift  the reduction 
potentials of the quinone (or another redox active capture agent)  and improve  O2 stability.  
5.2.2 Transition Metals . Redox -active transition metal (TM) centers paired with specific ligands can 
also serve as CO 2 capture agents in direct eCCC systems . DuBois and coworkers  suggested that TM 
complexes with ligands that contain a CO 2 binding site  (i.e., a nucleophilic nitrogen or oxygen ) could 
achieve CO 2 pumping .124 The metal center as the active redox site would alter the electron density of th e 
compound and thus the CO 2 binding affinity. Their study found that the distance between the redox 
metal center to CO 2 binding site significantly impacts  the electronic communication of the compound. 
The assayed compounds contained one, two , or five atoms separating the binding site to the redox active 
metal center of Co, Fe, o r Ru. CO 2 capture activity was only observed in the Co3+ cyclopentadienyl indenyl 
complex with a one -atom separation of metal from the binding site.  
A few b inuclear TM complexes explored in other works were demonstrated  to trap the CO 2 dissolved 
in aqueous media as a bound carbonate ion.156-159 In 
these, specific bridging ligands orient two metals (Zn, Co, 
Ni, or Cu) to issue strong carbonate binding interactions. 
However, st udies examining the electrochemical behavior 
of these compounds and their application to reversibly 
pumping CO 2 are limited.   
DuBois and coworkers examined binuclear Ni and Cu complexes with vari ed bridging ligands  for the 
reversible capture and release of bicarbonate , and found that more flexible ligands resulted in enhanced 
binding .132, 159 However, t he reduction potential s of the nickel complexes were  too negative for 
 
Figure 7. Carbonate adduct, [Cu 2(tpmc)(μ-
CO 3)]2+ formed from [Cu 2(tpmc)(μ-OH)]3+.  38 electrochemical pumping. Of the copper complexes surveyed, the [Cu 2(tpmc)(μ-OH)]3+ complex  (tpmc = 
bridging  N,N’,N’’,N’’’ -tetrakis(2 -pyridylmethyl) -1,4,8,11 -tetraazacyclotetradecane ligand) , demonstrated 
a viable reduction potential for CO 2 pumping  and successful  electrochemical  CO 2 capture and 
concentration from 10% to  75%  (Figure 7) in the presence of oxygen . Cycling resul ted in  partial 
precipitation of the Cu+ complex , an outcome  which could potentially be improved upon  with  variation of 
supporting electrolytes or ligand.  Contrary to typical increased CO 2 binding affinity upon reduction, these 
systems bind carbonate upon oxidation , and reduction  results in  CO 2 release.  
5.2.3 Bipyridine s. Bipyridine s also become more nucleophilic upon reduction, making them suitable 
candidates as CO 2 capture  redox carrier s. A study by Hitoshi  et al. described the reversible capture and 
release of CO 2 by N-propyl -4,4’-bipyridinium (Prbipy+).133 More recently, Buttry and coworkers explor ed 
the reactivity of the related N-methyl -4,4’-bipyridinium (Mebipy+) with experimental data and theoretical 
calculations.134 The electrochemical behavior and DFT calculations indicate the following  mechanism of 
CO 2 binding for Mebipy+ and the related Prbipy+ (Scheme 6). First, the Mebipy+ is reduced by one electron 
to form a neutral Mebipy*. In the presence of CO 2, Mebipy• species undergoes disproportionat ion to 
form Mebipy+ and Mebipy–. The latter reacts with CO 2 to form Mebipy –CO 2–, which results in a 
disappearance of the more cathodic r edox event. The CO 2 adduct can then be electrochemically oxidized 
by two electrons to return the parent Mebipy+ cation . For these monoalkylated bipyridinium species, the 
stoichiometry thus requires  two electrons  due to the disproportionation event  that occ urs to capture  
one molecule of  CO 2. 
Buttry  and coworkers also studied the 
related non -alkylated compound, 4 -,4’-
bipyridin e (bipy).160 The one electron reduction 
of bipy produces the radical anion, bipy•–, 
which quickly bind s to CO 2. Following oxidation 
of th e bipy–CO 2•– adduct , CO 2 is released and 
bipy is regenerat ed. This mechanism differs 
from the monoalkylated bipyridinium compounds. One equivalent of electrons is sufficient for capturing 
a single equivalent of CO 2 due to the more nucleophilic radical anion , which readily binds to CO 2 after a 
single reduction.  In the ionic liquid BMF TFSI u nder a N 2 atmosphere, reduction of bipy to  bipy•– is a one 
electron reversible couple at -2.25 V vs ferrocene. In a solution saturated with CO 2, the reduction peak for 
bipy•– shifts from -2.3 V to -2.05 V vs ferrocene displaying strong binding between bipy•– CO 2. The bipy–
CO 2•– is oxidized at -1.35 V vs ferrocene , a substantial positive shift  due to  the very stable N –C bond formed Scheme 6. Reduction of MeBipy+, disproportionation of 
Mebipy•, and CO 2 binding to Mebipy- 
  39 in the adduct. The large potential difference between reduction and oxidation  of this adduct is a crucia l 
component as it can impact the total energy for the bipy–CO 2 capture release cycle.  
Computation s were also carried out  to elucidate the reaction mechanism of CO 2 capture by 
4,4’-bipyridine .160 Utilizing DFT (B3LYP and M062X) with the implicit continuum solvation model, the 
computations revealed that a stable adduct is formed between the 4,4’ -bipyridine anion radical and the 
CO 2 molecule, with the Δ G0 = ‒43.9 kJ/mol.160 The release of the CO 2 molecule was then accomplished by 
re-oxidation of the adduct, presumably yielding a zwitterionic intermediate, which is susceptible to a 
facile decarboxylation.  
5.2.4 Dithiol s. Buttry and coworkers also 
described the use of  thiolates  as redox 
carriers .136 Prior to this study, there were  few 
reports of S -bound terminal thiocarbonates , 
and no description of the electrochemical 
behavior of thiocarbonate .161, 162 Buttry  and 
coworkers  specifically  looked at benzyldisulfide (BDS) for direct eCCC  where they observed that f rom one 
equivalent of BDS, a two -electron reduction results in two equiv alents of nucleophilic benzylthiolate that 
can react with one CO 2 molecule forming a S-benzylthiocarbonate ( Scheme 7). Using DFT (B3LYP), CO 2 
capture is estimated to have a  binding energy of -66 kJ mol-1. Computation s were also used to elucidate 
the CO 2 release  step. The authors proposed that CO 2 release should follow the oxidation of thiocarbonate 
due to a significant electron density localized at the S‒C bond of thiol and CO 2 in the redox -active 
molecular orbital (RAMO). Removing the electron from RAMO upon oxidation should thus lead to the 
bond destabilization and  the rapid CO 2 release. From the  overall  mechanism , a stoichiometry of one CO 2 
captured per one electron transferred  to BDS was found, which theoretically allows for capture of two 
CO 2 molecule s per each BDS.  
Harris and Bushnell  added to the BDS study from Buttry and coworkers  using  DFT to  assess solvent 
effects while  also explor ing the use of other benzyldichalcogenide  compounds.163 Pursuant to the 
dielectric constant of different solvents, the absolute reduction potenti al and the interaction energy for 
benzylthiolate -CO 2 binding were exhibited to range between 2.7 to 3.4 V and  ‒30 to ‒40 kJ/mol, 
respectively.  They also found that chalcogenide atom significantly impacted the oxidation/CO 2 release 
step. The CO 2 adducts f ormed in systems involving benzyldiselenide and benzylditelluride had less 
positive absolute reduction potentials compared to benzyldisulfide (BDS). Thus, the authors suggested 
using benzyl telluride and benzyl selenide as the potential eCCC agents, as the y should have a better 
 
Scheme 7. Mechanism of CO 2 capture via reduction of 
benzyldisulfide.   40 peak -to-peak separation between the CO 2 capture and CO 2 release potentials.  However, other factors, 
such as toxicity and availability, must also be considered.  
5.3 Cell and System Design  
To date,  most studies employing redox -active capture molecules for direct eCCC have consisted of 
proof -of-concept, cyclic voltammetry and/or bulk electrolysis experiments focused on characterizing 
capture species -electrolyte pairs in well -defined and controlled en vironments. Only a few studies have 
incorporated these molecules into a n engineered  cell design  with flowing gas streams . In the electro -
swing absorption ( ESA) system previously introduced , the redox -active capture agent is immobilized on 
the electrode sur face and activated via polarization to capture CO 2.147,148 A counter electrode, which is  the 
positive electrode  during the absorption phase, is used to complete the flow of electrons  (Figure 6 ). Once 
the negative electrode is saturated with CO 2 the polarity of the cell is deliberately reversed, deactivating 
the capture agent at the now positive electrode in order t o release CO 2 by desorption. Systems with the 
capture agent immobilized on the solid electrode require the feed gas stream, containing CO 2, to be fed 
directly to the electrode. Between both electrodes is a membrane/separator imbibed with the liquid 
electro lyte, which allows the porous electrode to become wetted with a liquid film.  This architecture 
facilitates the flow of ionic current throughout the 3D electrode structure to the electrochemical reaction 
sites. In a flowing gas operation scheme, the feed ga s containing CO 2 is fed through a parallel flow -field, 
and thus CO 2 must diffuse laterally through both the porous media and the liquid film to react with the 
activated quinone species.147, 148 In these ESA systems, which employ electrodes that require three -phase 
contact, utilization of the carrier species is lik ely to be controlled by the CO 2 mass transfer rate through 
the porous electrode and liquid film, which may be orders of magnitude lower than both the 
electrochemical and chemical (absorption and desorption) reaction rates. Accordingly, demonstrations 
for ESA systems have been limited to low current density operation  (≤ 2 mA cm-2).148 Additionally, it has 
been shown both experimentally and computationally that quinone utilization in a given cycle length is 
strongly dependent on the CO 2 concentration in the feed gas, which affects the driving force for film 
diffusion.147 
More recently, use of a liquid quinone for direct eCCC was demonstrated  in a redox flow bat tery type 
system , similar to what was described for some of the pH -swing setups in Section 3.3 (and depicted in 
Figure 4).  By employing two electrochemical cells , continuous, rather than cyclic, CO 2 capture was 
performed in one system. More specifically, one cell was used for sorbent activation and the other for 
deactivation  with the  absorption/desorption steps carried out in external units.  
5.4 Experimental Methods for Measuring CO 2 Binding Affinities   41 Determination of  𝐾1(R𝑛−) and  𝐾2(R) values for the active and resting states of redox carriers can be 
determined utilizing numerous methods. Unique to redox carriers however, electrochemical methods can 
be emplo yed dependent on the mechanism. For a system that employs an EC mechanism (elect ron 
transfer followed by chemical step), or EEC mechanism, carrier CO 2 binding constants ( 𝐾1(R𝑛−) values 
between 100 and 1015) can be measured using the observed shift in  the half -wave potential,  𝐸1/2, 
recorded in the presence and absence of a known concentration of CO 2 by applying eq. 11 .131, 164   
𝐸1/2=𝐸𝑜′+𝑅u𝑇
𝑛𝐹ln(𝐾1(R𝑛−))+𝑞𝑅𝑇
𝑛𝐹ln [CO2]                                           Eq. 11  
Where 𝑅u is the universal gas constant, 𝑇 is temperature, 𝐹 is Faraday’s constant, and 𝑛 is the number 
of electrons being passed in the redox event. The number of CO 2 molecules that a re bound during the 
chemical step is represented by the term 𝑞 (typically, 𝑞 = 1 for most carriers, but can be determined via 
other spectroscopic or voltammetric techniques124, 137, 165). 𝐸𝑜′ is the half -wave potential in the absence 
of CO 2, while 𝐸1/2 represents the half -wave potential in the presence of a known CO 2 concentration in 
solution ( [CO2]). This approach can be highly beneficial as it does not require isolation of the active state 
carrier, which can often be unstable or difficult to isolate c leanly. For  an EC mechanism where  𝐾1(R𝑛−) 
values are larger than 1015, the change in potential can be measured using the open circuit potential, with 
a varied range of CO 2 concentrations. In this case, the active state carrier must be formed chemically o r 
electrochemically. The 𝐸1/2 value from eq. 11  would refer to the open circuit potential under a known 
concentration of CO 2. The 𝐸𝑜′ value would refer to the open circuit potential in the absence of CO 2. The 
y-intercept of the linear relationship of th e change in open circuit potential versus the natural log of the 
concentration of CO 2 in solution can be used to find the binding constant.  
Values of KCO2 for redox -carriers can be also be determined using more common spectroscopic or 
physical techniques, depending on the magnitude of 𝐾1(R𝑛−) and solubility of the carrier. These 
techniques include, but are not limited to: NMR and electronic absorption spectroscopy, gravimetry, and 
gas uptake experiments.124, 137, 166, 167  
For a system that does not utilize an EC or EEC mechanism, the binding constant can be estimated 
using the electronic absorpt ion spectra at various CO 2 concentrations.124 The carrier must be in the active 
state in order to use t his method. In previous work, t he electronic absorption spectra were studied as a 
function of CO 2 concentration, and analyzed by the Benesi -Hildebrand method to find the equilibrium 
constant.168 
 
6. Concluding Remarks  and Outlook   42 The use of electrochemical CO 2 capture and concentration was initia lly reported in literature in the 
1960’s . In the intervening time frame, several different concepts and architectures have been propose d, 
with significant advancements occurring over the last decade. Some of these systems already operate 
with estimated energetic efficienc ies rivaling state -of-the-art systems in the laboratory setting.  These 
results have demonstrated the promise of eCCC, but also outline scientific challenges that , if addressed,  
would accelerate implementation and widespread use. Long term s tability still r epresents a challenge in 
most eCCC systems. Most pH swing, EMAR, and redox carrier systems are specifically sensitive to oxyg en, 
which is commonly present in dilute  CO 2 streams.  Modifying these systems to work at milder 
electrochemical potentials would lik ely be beneficial for oxygen stability, as well as engineering design  
approaches (e.g., implementation of oxygen separation) . Stability of current chemistries towards water 
vapor (for non -aqueous systems) and other components in a CO 2-containing stream s is also not clear.  
Most studies have focused on improving the chemistry of eCCC systems, such as the carrier species 
and electr olyte, for proof -of-concept experiments. However, design and operation of the electrochemical 
cell will also greatly impact performance of the system , including optimizing for high separation capacity 
and balancing overall energetics versus Faradaic effici encies. Other considerations that will be required 
for overall operation include selection of cell components (electrodes, membrane/separator, flow 
channels) and operating conditions , and the costs associated with these . The ideal properties and 
materials are not well understood and will likely depend on the specific application.  
Interest in more efficient and scalable eCCC has been motivated by the  urgency to decarbonize 
current industries to operate with minimal or no carbon emissions , and direct air capt ure to achieve 
carbon negative technologies.  With continued research investment to synergistically address the 
chemistry and engineering challenge s, eCCC can more quickly become a realit y. 
Acknowledgements  
We would like to thank the Sl oan Foundation for funding the authors of this review.  
Conflicts of Interest  
There are no conflicts of interest to declare . 
Citations  
(1) IPCC. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change. Con tribution of Working Group III to the 
Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; 10.1017/9781009157926; 
Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, 2022.  
(2) IEA. Global Energy Review: CO2 Emissions in 2021 ; Paris, 2022. https://www.iea. org/reports/global -
energy -review -co2-emissions -in-2021 -2.  43 (3) Friedlingstein, P.; Jones, M. W.; O'Sullivan, M.; Andrew, R. M.; Bakker, D. C. E.; Hauck, J.; Le Quéré, C.; 
Peters, G. P.; Peters, W.; Pongratz, J.; et al. Global Carbon Budget 2021. Earth Syst.  Sci. Data 2022 , 14 
(4), 1917 -2005. DOI: 10.5194/essd -14-1917 -2022.  
(4) Huebscher, R. G. B., A. D. Electrochemical Concentration and Separation of Carbon Dioxide for 
Advanced Life Supprot Systems - Carbonation Cell System. SAE Technical Papers 1969 , 2164 - 2170.  
(5) Rogelj, J.; den Elzen, M.; Höhne, N.; Fransen, T.; Fekete, H.; Winkler, H.; Schaeffer, R.; Sha, F.; Riahi, 
K.; Meinshausen, M. Paris Agreement climate proposals need a boost to keep warming well below 2 °C. 
Nature 2016 , 534 (7609), 631 -639. DOI:  10.1038/nature18307.  
(6) CO2 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. https://ourworldindata.org/co2 -and-other -greenhouse -gas-
emissions  (accessed September 2022).  
(7) Metz, B.; Davidson, O.; de Coninck, H.; Loos, M.; Meyer, L. IPCC Special Report on Carbon dioxide 
Capture and Storage. Policy Stud. 2005 . 
(8) https://ourworldindata.org/emissions -by-sector#co2 -emissions -by-sector  (accessed.  
(9) IEA. Net Zero by 2050 ; Paris, 2021. https://www.iea.org/reports/net -zero -by-2050 . 
(10) Rogelj, J.; Popp, A.; Calvin, K. V.; Lud erer, G.; Emmerling, J.; Gernaat, D.; Fujimori, S.; Strefler, J.; 
Hasegawa, T.; Marangoni, G.; et al. Scenarios towards limiting global mean temperature increase below 
1.5 °C. Nature Climate Change 2018 , 8 (4), 325 -332. DOI: 10.1038/s41558 -018-0091 -3. 
(11) Institute, G. C. Global Status of CCS 2021 ; 2021. 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/resources/global -status -report/ . 
(12) Institute, G. C. https://co2re.co/FacilityData  (accessed.  
(13) Tavoni, M.; van der Zwaan, B. Nuclear Versus Coal plus CCS: a Com parison of Two Competitive Base -
Load Climate Control Options. Environmental Modeling & Assessment 2011 , 16 (5), 431 -440. DOI: 
10.1007/s10666 -011-9259 -1. 
(14) Chu, S.; Majumdar, A. Opportunities and challenges for a sustainable energy future. Nature 2012 , 
488 (7411), 294 -303, 10.1038/nature11475.  
(15) Lackner, K. S.; Brennan, S.; Matter, J. M.; Park, A. -H. A.; Wright, A.; van der Zwaan, B. The urgency of 
the development of CO<sub>2</sub> capture from ambient air. Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Scienc es 2012 , 109 (33), 13156 -13162. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1108765109.  
(16) IEA. Direct Air Capture ; Paris, 2021. https://www.iea.org/reports/direct -air-capture . 
(17) Hammond, G. P.; Akwe, S. S. O.; Williams, S. Techno -economic appraisal of fossil -fuelled power 
generation systems with carbon dioxide capture and storage. Energy 2011 , 36 (2), 975 -984. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2010.12.012 . 
(18) House, K. Z.; Baclig, A. C.; Ranjan, M.; van Nierop, E. A.; Wilcox, J.; Herzog, H. J. Economic and 
energetic anal ysis of capturing CO<sub>2</sub> from ambient air. Proceedings of the National Academy 
of Sciences 2011 , 108 (51), 20428 -20433. DOI: doi:10.1073/pnas.1012253108.  
(19) Chao, C.; Deng, Y.; Dewil, R.; Baeyens, J.; Fan, X. Post -combustion carbon capture. Renew able and 
Sustainable Energy Reviews 2021 , 138, 110490. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2020.110490 . 
(20) Raza, A.; Gholami, R.; Rezaee, R.; Rasouli, V.; Rabiei, M. Significant aspects of carbon capture and 
storage – A review. Petroleum 2019 , 5 (4), 335 -340. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petlm.2018.12.007 . 
(21) Wang, X.; Song, C. Carbon Capture From Flue Gas and the Atmosphere: A Perspective. Frontiers in 
Energy Research 2020 , 8, Review. DOI: 10.3389/fenrg.2020.560849.  
(22) Yu, C. -H.; Huang, C. -H.; Tan,  C.-S. A Review of CO2 Capture by Absorption and Adsorption. Aerosol 
and Air Quality Research 2012 , 12 (5), 745 -769. DOI: 10.4209/aaqr.2012.05.0132.  
(23) House, K. Z.; Harvey, C. F.; Aziz, M. J.; Schrag, D. P. The energy penalty of post -combustion CO2 
capt ure & storage and its implications for retrofitting the U.S. installed base. Energy & Environmental 
Science 2009 , 2 (2), 193 -205. DOI: 10.1039/B811608C.  
(24) Abu -Zahra, M. R. M.; Schneiders, L. H. J.; Niederer, J. P. M.; Feron, P. H. M.; Versteeg, G. F. CO 2 
capture from power plants: Part I. A parametric study of the technical performance based on  44 monoethanolamine. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control 2007 , 1 (1), 37 -46. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1750 -5836(06)00007 -7. 
(25) Goto, K.; Kodama, S .; Okabe, H.; Fujioka, Y. Energy Performance of New Amine -Based Solvents for 
CO<sub>2</sub> Capture from Blast Furnace Gas. In Recent Advances in Post -Combustion 
CO<sub>2</sub> Capture Chemistry , ACS Symposium Series, Vol. 1097; American Chemical Society, 
2012; pp 317 -331.  
(26) Singh, A.; Stéphenne, K. Shell Cansolv CO2 capture technology: Achievement from First Commercial 
Plant. Energy Procedia 2014 , 63, 1678 -1685. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2014.11.177 . 
(27) Yulia, F.; Sofianita, R.; Prayogo, K .; Nasruddin, N. Optimization of post combustion CO2 absorption 
system monoethanolamine (MEA) based for 320  MW coal -fired power plant application – Exergy and 
exergoenvironmental analysis. Case Studies in Thermal Engineering 2021 , 26, 101093. DOI: 
https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.csite.2021.101093 . 
(28) Rochelle, G.; Chen, E.; Freeman, S.; Van Wagener, D.; Xu, Q.; Voice, A. Aqueous piperazine as the 
new standard for CO2 capture technology. Chemical Engineering Journal 2011 , 171 (3), 725 -733. DOI: 
https://doi.org/1 0.1016/j.cej.2011.02.011 . 
(29) Boot -Handford, M. E.; Abanades, J. C.; Anthony, E. J.; Blunt, M. J.; Brandani, S.; Mac Dowell, N.; 
Fernández, J. R.; Ferrari, M. -C.; Gross, R.; Hallett, J. P.; et al. Carbon capture and storage update. Energy 
& Environmental Science 2014 , 7 (1), 130 -189, 10.1039/C3EE42350F. DOI: 10.1039/C3EE42350F.  
(30) Rochelle, G. T. Amine Scrubbing for CO<sub>2</sub> Capture. Science 2009 , 325 (5948), 1652 -1654. 
DOI: 10.1126/science.1176731.  
(31) Wilcox, J. Carbon Capture ; Springer, 2012.  
(32) Institute, G. C. State of the Art: CCS Technologies 2022 ; 2022. 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/wp -content/uploads/2022/05/State -of-the-Art-CCS-Technologies -
2022.pdf . 
(33) Baylin -Stern, A. B., N. Is carbon capture too expensive? ; Paris, 2021. 
https: //www.iea.org/commentaries/is -carbon -capture -too-expensive . 
(34) Fasihi, M.; Efimova, O.; Breyer, C. Techno -economic assessment of CO2 direct air capture plants. 
Journal of Cleaner Production 2019 , 224, 957 -980. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019. 03.086 . 
(35) McQueen, N.; Psarras, P.; Pilorgé, H.; Liguori, S.; He, J.; Yuan, M.; Woodall, C. M.; Kian, K.; Pierpoint, 
L.; Jurewicz, J.; et al. Cost Analysis of Direct Air Capture and Sequestration Coupled to Low -Carbon 
Thermal Energy in the United States . Environmental Science & Technology 2020 , 54 (12), 7542 -7551. 
DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.0c00476.  
(36) Lackner, K. S.; Azarabadi, H. Buying down the Cost of Direct Air Capture. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2021 , 
60 (22), 8196 -8208. DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.0c04839.  
(37) Global Status of CCS: 2019 ; Global CCS Institute, Australia, 2019.  
(38) Lackner, K. S. The thermodynamics of direct air capture of carbon dioxide. Energy 2013 , 50, 38-46. 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2012.09.012 . 
(39) Stern, M. C.; Simeon, F.; Herzog, H.; Hatton, T. A. Post -combustion carbon dioxide capture using  
electrochemically mediated amine regeneration. Energy & Environ. Sci. 2013 , 6 (8), 2505 -2517, 
10.1039/C3EE41165F. DOI: 10.1039/C3EE41165F.  
(40) Stern, M. C.; Simeon, F.; Hammer, T.; Landes, H.; Herzog, H. J.; Alan Hatton, T. Electrochemically 
mediated sep aration for carbon capture. Energy Procedia 2011 , 4, 860 -867. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2011.01.130 . 
(41) Shaw, R. A.; Hatton, T. A. Electrochemical CO2 capture thermodynamics. International Journal of 
Greenhouse Gas Control 2020 , 95, 102878. D OI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2019.102878 . 
(42) Rheinhardt, J. H.; Singh, P.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Buttry, D. A. Electrochemical capture and release of 
carbon dioxide. ACS Energy Letters 2017 , 2 (2), 454 -461. DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.6b00608.   45 (43) Barl ow, J. M.; Clarke, L. E.; Zhang, Z.; Bím, D.; Ripley, K. M.; Zito, A.; Brushett, F. R.; Alexandrova, A. 
N.; Yang, J. Y. Molecular design of redox carriers for electrochemical CO2 capture and concentration. 
Chem. Soc. Rev. 2022 , 10.1039/D2CS00367H. DOI: 10. 1039/D2CS00367H.  
(44) Dell'Osso, L.; Ruder, J. M.; Winnick, J. Mixed -Gas Adsorption and Vacuum Desorption of Carbon 
Dioxide on Molecular Sieve. Bed Performance and Data Analysis. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry 
Process Design and Development 1969 , 8 (4), 477 -482. DOI: 10.1021/i260032a007.  
(45) Martin, R. B. Carbon dioxide control for manned spacecraft. Aerospace medicine 1968 , 39 9 , 937 -
941.  
(46) Wynveen, R. A. Q., P. D. Electrochemical carbon dioxide concentrating system. In ASME Life Support 
Conference , San Francisco, CA, 1971.  
(47) Wynveen, R. A. S., F. H.; Powell, J. D. One-man self -contained CO concentrator system ; NASA CR -
114426; 1972.  
(48) Winnick, J.; Marshall, R. D.; Schubert, F. H. An Electrochemical Device for Carbon Dioxide 
Concentration. I. S ystem Design and Performance. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Process Design 
and Development 1974 , 13 (1), 59 -63. DOI: 10.1021/i260049a011.  
(49) Eisaman, M. D. S., D. E.; Amic, S.; Larner, D.; Zesch, J.; Torrest, F.; Littau, K. Energy -efficient 
electroc hemical CO2 capture from the atmosphere. Clean Technology 2009 , 175 -178.  
(50) Winnick, J.; Toghiani, H.; Quattrone, P. D. Carbon dioxide concentration for manned spacecraft 
using a molten carbonate electrochemical cell. AIChE J. 1982 , 28 (1), 103 -111. DOI:  
https://doi.org/10.1002/aic.690280115 . 
(51) Weaver, J. L.; Winnick, J. The Molten Carbonate Carbon Dioxide Concentrator: Cathode 
Performance at High  CO 2 Utilization. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1983 , 130 (1), 20 -28. DOI: 
10.1149/1.2119661.  
(52) Kang, M. P.; Wi nnick, J. Concentration of carbon dioxide by a high -temperature electrochemical 
membrane cell. J. Appl. Electrochem. 1985 , 15 (3), 431 -439. DOI: 10.1007/BF00615996.  
(53) Sharifian, R.; Wagterveld, R. M.; Digdaya, I. A.; Xiang, C.; Vermaas, D. A. Electroche mical carbon 
dioxide capture to close the carbon cycle. Energy & Environmental Science 2021 , 14 (2), 781 -814, 
10.1039/D0EE03382K. DOI: 10.1039/D0EE03382K.  
(54) Ye, W.; Huang, J.; Lin, J.; Zhang, X.; Shen, J.; Luis, P.; Van der Bruggen, B. Environmental eva luation 
of bipolar membrane electrodialysis for NaOH production from wastewater: Conditioning NaOH as a 
CO2 absorbent. Sep. Purif. Technol. 2015 , 144, 206 -214. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2015.02.031 . 
(55) Eisaman, M. D.; Alvarado, L.; Larner, D. ; Wang, P.; Garg, B.; Littau, K. A. CO2 separation using bipolar 
membrane electrodialysis. Energy & Environmental Science 2011 , 4 (4), 1319 -1328, 
10.1039/C0EE00303D. DOI: 10.1039/C0EE00303D.  
(56) Eisaman, M. D.; Alvarado, L.; Larner, D.; Wang, P.; Littau, K. A. CO2 desorption using high -pressure 
bipolar membrane electrodialysis. Energy & Environmental Science 2011 , 4 (10), 4031 -4037, 
10.1039/C1EE01336J. DOI: 10.1039/C1EE01336J.  
(57) Sabatino, F.; Mehta, M.; Grimm, A.; Gazzani, M.; Gallucci, F.; Kramer, G. J .; van Sint Annaland, M. 
Evaluation of a Direct Air Capture Process Combining Wet Scrubbing and Bipolar Membrane 
Electrodialysis. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2020 , 59 (15), 7007 -7020. DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.9b05641.  
(58) Eisaman, M. D.; Parajuly, K.; Tuganov, A.; Eldershaw, C.; Chang, N.; Littau, K. A. CO2 extraction from 
seawater using bipolar membrane electrodialysis. Energy & Environmental Science 2012 , 5 (6), 7346 -
7352, 10.1039/C2EE03393C. DOI: 10.1039/C2EE03393C.  
(59) Datta, S.; Henry, M. P.; Lin, Y. J.; Fraca ro, A. T.; Millard, C. S.; Snyder, S. W.; Stiles, R. L.; Shah, J.; 
Yuan, J.; Wesoloski, L.; et al. Electrochemical CO2 Capture Using Resin -Wafer Electrodeionization. Ind. 
Eng. Chem. Res. 2013 , 52 (43), 15177 -15186. DOI: 10.1021/ie402538d.   46 (60) Warren, J. J .; Tronic, T. A.; Mayer, J. M. Thermochemistry of Proton -Coupled Electron Transfer 
Reagents and its Implications. Chemical Reviews 2010 , 110 (12), 6961 -7001. DOI: 10.1021/cr100085k.  
(61) Winsberg, J.; Hagemann, T.; Janoschka, T.; Hager, M. D.; Schubert, U.  S. Redox -Flow Batteries: From 
Metals to Organic Redox -Active Materials. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2017 , 56 (3), 686 -
711. DOI: 10.1002/anie.201604925.  
(62) Huang, C.; Liu, C.; Wu, K.; Yue, H.; Tang, S.; Lu, H.; Liang, B. CO2 Capture from Flue  Gas Using an 
Electrochemically Reversible Hydroquinone/Quinone Solution. Energy Fuels 2019 , 33 (4), 3380 -3389. 
DOI: 10.1021/acs.energyfuels.8b04419.  
(63) Huynh, M. T.; Anson, C. W.; Cavell, A. C.; Stahl, S. S.; Hammes -Schiffer, S. Quinone 1 e – and 2 e –/2 
H+ Reduction Potentials: Identification and Analysis of Deviations from Systematic Scaling Relationships. 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016 , 138 (49), 15903 -15910. DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b05797.  
(64) Yang, B.; Hoober -Burkhardt, L.; Krishnamoorthy, S.; Murali, A.; Prakash , G. K. S.; Narayanan, S. R. 
High -Performance Aqueous Organic Flow Battery with Quinone -Based Redox Couples at Both 
Electrodes. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2016 , 163 (7), A1442 -A1449. DOI: 10.1149/2.1371607jes.  
(65) Lin, K.; Gómez -Bombarelli, R.; Beh, E. S.; Tong, L.; Chen, Q.; Valle, A.; Aspuru -Guzik, A.; Aziz, M. J.; 
Gordon, R. G. A redox -flow battery with an alloxazine -based organic electrolyte. Nature Energy 2016 , 1 
(9), 16102. DOI: 10.1038/nenergy.2016.102.  
(66) Lin, K.; Chen, Q.; Gerhardt, M. R.; Tong, L.; Kim, S. B.; Eisenach, L.; Valle, A. W.; Hardee, D.; Gordon, 
R. G.; Aziz, M. J.; et al. Alkaline quinone flow battery. Science 2015 , 349 (6255), 1529 -1532. DOI: 
10.1126/science.aab3033.  
(67) Er, S.; Suh, C. ; Marshak, M. P.; Aspuru -Guzik, A. Computational design of molecules for an all -
quinone redox flow battery. Chemical Science 2015 , 6 (2), 885 -893, 10.1039/C4SC03030C. DOI: 
10.1039/C4SC03030C.  
(68) Watkins, J. D.; Siefert, N. S.; Zhou, X.; Myers, C. R.; Kit chin, J. R.; Hopkinson, D. P.; Nulwala, H. B. 
Redox -Mediated Separation of Carbon Dioxide from Flue Gas. Energy Fuels 2015 , 29 (11), 7508 -7515. 
DOI: 10.1021/acs.energyfuels.5b01807.  
(69) Jin, S.; Wu, M.; Gordon, R. G.; Aziz, M. J.; Kwabi, D. G. pH swing cy cle for CO2 capture 
electrochemically driven through proton -coupled electron transfer. Energy & Environmental Science 
2020 , 13 (10), 3706 -3722, 10.1039/D0EE01834A. DOI: 10.1039/D0EE01834A.  
(70) Xie, H.; Wu, Y.; Liu, T.; Wang, F.; Chen, B.; Liang, B. Low -energy -consumption electrochemical CO2 
capture driven by biomimetic phenazine derivatives redox medium. Applied Energy 2020 , 259, 114119. 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.114119 . 
(71) Seo, H.; Rahimi, M.; Hatton, T. A. Electrochemical Carbon Diox ide Capture and Release with a 
Redox -Active Amine. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022 , 144 (5), 2164 -2170. DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c10656.  
(72) Yamaguchi, A.; Inuzuka, R.; Takashima, T.; Hayashi, T.; Hashimoto, K.; Nakamura, R. Regulating 
proton -coupled electron transfer f or efficient water splitting by manganese oxides at neutral pH. Nature 
Communications 2014 , 5 (1), 4256. DOI: 10.1038/ncomms5256.  
(73) Xie, H.; Jiang, W.; Liu, T.; Wu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Chen, B.; Niu, D.; Liang, B. Low -Energy Electrochemical 
Carbon Dioxide Cap ture Based on a Biological Redox Proton Carrier. Cell Reports Physical Science 2020 , 1 
(5), 100046. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2020.100046 . 
(74) Costentin, C. Electrochemical Approach to the Mechanistic Study of Proton -Coupled Electron 
Transfer. Chemical Reviews 2008 , 108 (7), 2145 -2179. DOI: 10.1021/cr068065t.  
(75) Song, N.; Gagliardi, C. J.; Binstead, R. A.; Zhang, M. -T.; Thorp, H.; Meyer, T. J. Role of Proton -Coupled 
Electron Transfer in the Redox Interconversion between Benzoquinone and Hydroqu inone. J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 2012 , 134 (45), 18538 -18541. DOI: 10.1021/ja308700t.  
(76) Michael, A.; David G., K. pH Swing Cycle for CO2 Capture Electrochemically Driven through Proton -
Coupled Electron Transfer ; 2019. DOI: 10.26434/chemrxiv.7853414.v1.   47 (77) Hol las, A.; Wei, X.; Murugesan, V.; Nie, Z.; Li, B.; Reed, D.; Liu, J.; Sprenkle, V.; Wang, W. A 
biomimetic high -capacity phenazine -based anolyte for aqueous organic redox flow batteries. Nature 
Energy 2018 , 3 (6), 508 -514. DOI: 10.1038/s41560 -018-0167 -3. 
(78) Leitz, F. B.; Marinčić, L. Enhanced mass transfer in electrochemical cells using turbulence promoters. 
J. Appl. Electrochem. 1977 , 7 (6), 473 -484. DOI: 10.1007/BF00616758.  
(79) Rahimi, M.; Catalini, G.; Hariharan, S.; Wang, M.; Puccini, M.; Hatton, T. A.  Carbon Dioxide Capture 
Using an Electrochemically Driven Proton Concentration Process. Cell Reports Physical Science 2020 , 1 
(4), 100033. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2020.100033 . 
(80) Rahimi, M.; Catalini, G.; Puccini, M.; Hatton, T. A. Bench -scale demonstration of CO2 capture with 
an electrochemically driven proton concentration process. RSC Advances 2020 , 10 (29), 16832 -16843. 
DOI: 10.1039/D0RA02450C.  
(81) Mondal, M. K.; Balsora, H. K.; Varshney, P. Progress and trends in CO2 capture/separation 
technologies: A review. Energy 2012 , 46 (1), 431 -441. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2012.08.006 . 
(82) Wang, M.; Herzog, H. J.; Hatton, T. A. CO2 Capture Using Electrochemically Mediated Amine 
Regeneration. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2020 , 59 (15), 7087 -7096. DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.9b05307.  
(83) Stern, M. C. Electrochemically -mediated amine regeneration for carbon dioxide separations. 
Masschusetts Institute of Technology, 2013.  
(84) Wang, M.; Hariharan, S.; Shaw, R. A.; Hatton, T. A. Energetics of electroche mically mediated amine 
regeneration process for flue gas CO2 capture. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control 2019 , 
82, 48-58. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2018.12.028 . 
(85) Stern, M. C.; Simeon, F.; Herzog, H.; Hatton, T. A. Post -combustio n carbon dioxide capture using 
electrochemically mediated amine regeneration. Energy & Environmental Science 2013 , 6 (8), 2505 -
2517. DOI: 10.1039/C3EE41165F.  
(86) Stern, M. C.; Hatton, T. A. Bench -scale demonstration of CO2 capture with electrochemically -
mediated amine regeneration. RSC Advances 2014 , 4 (12), 5906 -5914. DOI: 10.1039/C3RA46774K.  
(87) Wang, M.; Rahimi, M.; Kumar, A.; Hariharan, S.; Choi, W.; Hatton, T. A. Flue gas CO2 capture via 
electrochemically mediated amine regeneration: System design an d performance. Applied Energy 2019 , 
255, 113879. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113879 . 
(88) Eltayeb, A. O.; Stern, M. C.; Herzog, H.; Hatton, T. A. Energetics of Electrochemically -mediated 
Amine Regeneration. Energy Procedia 2014 , 63, 595 -604. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2014.11.064 . 
(89) Liu, G. X.; Yu, Y. S.; Hong, Y. T.; Zhang, Z. X.; Wei, J. J.; Wang, G. G. X. Identifying electrochemical 
effects in a thermal –electrochemical co -driven system for CO2 capture. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phy s. 2017 , 
19 (20), 13230 -13244. DOI: 10.1039/C7CP01035D.  
(90) Eltayeb, A. E. Analysis and Design of Electrochemically -Mediated Carbon Dioxide Separation. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 2017.  
(91) Wang, M.; Hatton, T. A. Flue Gas CO2 C apture via Electrochemically Mediated Amine Regeneration: 
Desorption Unit Design and Analysis. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2020 , 59 (21), 10120 -10129. DOI: 
10.1021/acs.iecr.0c00790.  
(92) Colli, A. N.; Toelzer, R.; Bergmann, M. E. H.; Bisang, J. M. Mass -transfer studies in an electrochemical 
reactor with a small interelectrode gap. Electrochim. Acta 2013 , 100, 78-84. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.03.134 . 
(93) Castañeda,  L. F.; Walsh, F. C.; Nava, J. L.; Ponce de León, C. Graphite felt as a versatile electrode 
material: Properties, reaction environment, performance and applications. Electrochim. Acta 2017 , 258, 
1115 -1139. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.11.1 65.  48 (94) Babic, U.; Suermann, M.; Büchi, F. N.; Gubler, L.; Schmidt, T. J. Critical Review —Identifying Critical 
Gaps for Polymer Electrolyte Water Electrolysis Development. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 (4), F387 -
F399. DOI: 10.1149/2.1441704jes.  
(95) Mous sallem, I.; Jörissen, J.; Kunz, U.; Pinnow, S.; Turek, T. Chlor -alkali electrolysis with oxygen 
depolarized cathodes: history, present status and future prospects. J. Appl. Electrochem. 2008 , 38 (9), 
1177 -1194. DOI: 10.1007/s10800 -008-9556 -9. 
(96) Pollard,  R.; Newman, J. Transient behaviour of porous electrodes with high exchange current 
densities. Electrochim. Acta 1980 , 25 (3), 315 -321. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/0013 -4686(80)90012 -2. 
(97) Shaw, R. A. Modeling and Design for Electrochemical Carbon Dioxi de Capture Systems. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 2019.  
(98) Pletcher, D.; Walsh, F. C. Industrial Electrochemistry ; Springer Netherlands, 1990.  
(99) Yang, H. S.; Park, J. H.; Ra, H. W.; Jin, C. -S.; Yang, J. H. Critical rate of elec trolyte circulation for 
preventing zinc dendrite formation in a zinc –bromine redox flow battery. J. Power Sources 2016 , 325, 
446-452. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.06.038 . 
(100) Stowe, H. M.; Hwang, G. S. Fundamental Understanding of CO2 Cap ture and Regeneration in 
Aqueous Amines from First -Principles Studies: Recent Progress and Remaining Challenges. Ind. Eng. 
Chem. Res. 2017 , 56 (24), 6887 -6899. DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.7b00213.  
(101) Yang, X.; Rees, R. J.; Conway, W.; Puxty, G.; Yang, Q.; Win kler, D. A. Computational Modeling and 
Simulation of CO2 Capture by Aqueous Amines. Chemical Reviews 2017 , 117 (14), 9524 -9593. DOI: 
10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00662.  
(102) Tian, Z.; Dai, S.; Jiang, D. -e. What can molecular simulation do for global warming? WIREs 
Computational Molecular Science 2016 , 6 (2), 173 -197, https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1241 . DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1241  (acccessed 2020/12/12).  
(103) da Silva, E. F.; Svendsen, H. F. Ab Initio Study of the Reaction of Carbamate Formation from CO 2 
and Alkanolamines. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2004 , 43 (13), 3413 -3418. DOI: 10.1021/ie030619k.  
(104) Shim, J. -G.; Kim, J. -H.; Jhon, Y. H.; Kim, J.; Cho, K. -H. DFT Calculations on the Role of Base in the 
Reaction between CO2 and Monoethanolamine. Ind. Eng. Che m. Res. 2009 , 48 (4), 2172 -2178. DOI: 
10.1021/ie800684a.  
(105) da Silva, E. F.; Svendsen, H. F. Computational chemistry study of reactions, equilibrium and kinetics 
of chemical CO2 absorption. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control 2007 , 1 (2), 15 1-157. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1750 -5836(07)00022 -9. 
(106) Arstad, B.; Blom, R.; Swang, O. CO2 Absorption in Aqueous Solutions of Alkanolamines:  
Mechanistic Insight from Quantum Chemical Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2007 , 111 
(7), 1222 -1228. DOI: 10.1021/jp065301v.  
(107) Sumon, K. Z.; Bains, C. H.; Markewich, D. J.; Henni, A.; East, A. L. L. Semicontinuum Solvation 
Modeling Improves Predictions of Carbamate Stability in the CO2 + Aqueous Amine Reaction. The 
Journal of Physical Ch emistry B 2015 , 119 (37), 12256 -12264. DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b06076.  
(108) Xie, H. -B.; Zhou, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Johnson, J. K. Reaction Mechanism of Monoethanolamine with CO2 
in Aqueous Solution from Molecular Modeling. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2010, 114 (43), 
11844 -11852. DOI: 10.1021/jp107516k.  
(109) Hwang, G. S.; Stowe, H. M.; Paek, E.; Manogaran, D. Reaction mechanisms of aqueous 
monoethanolamine with carbon dioxide: a combined quantum chemical and molecular dynamics study. 
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phy s. 2015 , 17 (2), 831 -839, 10.1039/C4CP04518A. DOI: 10.1039/C4CP04518A.  
(110) Guido, C. A.; Pietrucci, F.; Gallet, G. A.; Andreoni, W. The Fate of a Zwitterion in Water from ab 
Initio Molecular Dynamics: Monoethanolamine (MEA) -CO2. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2013, 9 (1), 28 -32. 
DOI: 10.1021/ct301071b.   49 (111) Han, B.; Zhou, C.; Wu, J.; Tempel, D. J.; Cheng, H. Understanding CO2 Capture Mechanisms in 
Aqueous Monoethanolamine via First Principles Simulations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 
2011 , 2 (6), 5 22-526. DOI: 10.1021/jz200037s.  
(112) Sumon, K. Z.; Henni, A.; East, A. L. L. Molecular Dynamics Simulations of Proposed Intermediates in 
the CO2 + Aqueous Amine Reaction. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2014 , 5 (7), 1151 -1156. 
DOI: 10.1021/jz500 237v.  
(113) Ma, C.; Pietrucci, F.; Andreoni, W. Capture and Release of CO2 in Monoethanolamine Aqueous 
Solutions: New Insights from First -Principles Reaction Dynamics. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2015 , 11 (7), 
3189 -3198. DOI: 10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00379.  
(114) Ma , C.; Pietrucci, F.; Andreoni, W. Capturing CO2 in Monoethanolamine (MEA) Aqueous Solutions: 
Fingerprints of Carbamate Formation Assessed with First -Principles Simulations. The Journal of Physical 
Chemistry Letters 2014 , 5 (10), 1672 -1677. DOI: 10.1021/jz5 006253.  
(115) Matsuzaki, Y.; Yamada, H.; Chowdhury, F. A.; Higashii, T.; Onoda, M. Ab Initio Study of CO2 Capture 
Mechanisms in Aqueous Monoethanolamine: Reaction Pathways for the Direct Interconversion of 
Carbamate and Bicarbonate. The Journal of Physical  Chemistry A 2013 , 117 (38), 9274 -9281. DOI: 
10.1021/jp406636a.  
(116) Orestes, E.; Machado Ronconi, C.; Carneiro, J. W. d. M. Insights into the interactions of CO2 with 
amines: a DFT benchmark study. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014 , 16 (32), 17213 -17219, 
10.1 039/C4CP02254H. DOI: 10.1039/C4CP02254H.  
(117) Mindrup, E. M.; Schneider, W. F. Computational Comparison of the Reactions of Substituted 
Amines with CO2. ChemSusChem 2010 , 3 (8), 931 -938. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201000060 . 
(118) Gangarapu, S.; Wi erda, G. J.; Marcelis, A. T. M.; Zuilhof, H. Quantum Chemical Studies on Solvents 
for Post -Combustion Carbon Dioxide Capture: Calculation of pKa and Carbamate Stability of 
Disubstituted Piperazines. ChemPhysChem 2014 , 15 (9), 1880 -1886. DOI: 
https://doi.or g/10.1002/cphc.201301217 . 
(119) Gangarapu, S.; Marcelis, A. T. M.; Zuilhof, H. Improving the Capture of CO2 by Substituted 
Monoethanolamines: Electronic Effects of Fluorine and Methyl Substituents. ChemPhysChem 2012 , 13 
(17), 3973 -3980, https://doi.org/10.1002/cphc.201200471 . DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1002/cphc.201200471  (acccessed 2020/12/12).  
(120) Jhon, Y. H.; Shim, J. -G.; Kim, J. -H.; Lee, J. H.; Jang, K. -R.; Kim, J. Nucleophilicity and Accessibility 
Calculations of Alkanolamines: Applications to Carbon Dioxide Absorption Reactions . The Journal of 
Physical Chemistry A 2010 , 114 (49), 12907 -12913. DOI: 10.1021/jp105914c.  
(121) Li, H. -C.; Chai, J. -D.; Tsai, M. -K. Assessment of dispersion -improved exchange -correlation 
functionals for the simulation of CO2 binding by alcoholamines. Int. J. Quantum Chem. 2014 , 114 (12), 
805-812. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/qua.24670 . 
(122) Barlow, J. M. C., Lauren; Zhang, Zisheng; Bim, Daniel; Ripley, Katelyn; Zito, Alessandra; Brushett, 
Fikile; Alexandrova, Anastassia; Yang, Jenny Y. Molecular Design of  Redox Carriers for Electrochemical 
CO2 Capture and Concentration. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2022 , accepted . 
(123) Bell, W. L. M., A.; Smart, J. C.; DuBois, D. L. . Synthesis and Evaluation of CO2 Carriers. SAE 
Technical Papers 1988 , 881078. DOI: 10.4271/881078.  
(124) DuBois, D. L.; Miedaner, A.; Bell, W.; Smart, J. C. Chapter 4 - Electrochemical Concentration of 
Carbon Dioxide. In Electrochemical and Electrocatalytic Reactions of Carbon Dioxide , Sullivan, B. P. Ed.; 
Elsevier, 1993; pp 94 -117.  
(125) Scovazzo, P.; Pos husta, J.; DuBois, D.; Koval, C.; Noble, R. Electrochemical Separation and 
Concentration of <1% Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2003 , 150 (5), D91 -D98. DOI: 
10.1149/1.1566962.   50 (126) Clarke, L. E.; Leonard, M. E.; Hatton, T. A.; Brushett,  F. R. Thermodynamic Modeling of CO2 
Separation Systems with Soluble, Redox -Active Capture Species. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2022 , 61 (29), 
10531 -10546. DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.1c04185.  
(127) Mizen, M. B.; Wrighton, M. S. Reductive Addition of  CO 2 to 9,10‐Phen anthrenequinone. J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 1989 , 136 (4), 941 -946. DOI: 10.1149/1.2096891.  
(128) Nagaoka, T.; Nishii, N.; Fujii, K.; Ogura, K. Mechanisms of reductive addition of CO2 to quinones in 
acetonitrile. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1992 , 322 (1), 383 -389. DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/0022 -
0728(92)80090 -Q. 
(129) Qiao, X.; Li, D.; Cheng, L.; Jin, B. Mechanism of electrochemical capture of CO2 via redox cycle of 
chlorinated 1,4 -naphthoquinone in BMIMBF4: An in -situ FT -IR spectroelectrochemical approach. J. 
Electr oanal. Chem. 2019 , 845, 126 -136. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2019.05.057 . 
(130) Scovazzo, P.; Poshusta, J.; DuBois, D.; Koval, C.; Noble, R. Electrochemical Separation and 
Concentration of <1% Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2003 , 150 (5), D91. DOI: 
10.1149/1.1566962.  
(131) Schmidt, M. H.; Miskelly, G. M.; Lewis, N. S. Effects of Redox Potential, Steric Configuration, 
Solvent, and Alkali Metal Cations on the Binding of Carbon Dioxide to Cobalt(I) and Nickel(I) 
Macrocycles. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1990 , 112 (9), 3420 -3426. DOI: 10.1021/ja00165a027.  
(132) Appel, A. M.; Newell, R.; DuBois, D. L.; Rakowski DuBois, M. Concentration of Carbon Dioxide by 
Electrochemically Modulated Complexation with a Binuclear Copper Complex. Inorg. Chem. 2005 , 44 (9), 
3046 -3056. DOI: 10.1021/ic050023k.  
(133) Hitoshi, I.; Tomoyuki, O.; Tomohiro, Y.; Katsutoshi, O. Interaction between CO2 and 
Electrochemically Reduced Species of N -propyl -4,4′-bipyridinium Cation. Chem. Lett. 1994 , 23 (5), 905 -
908. DOI: 10.12 46/cl.1994.905.  
(134) Singh, P.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Buttry, D. A. Experimental, Simulation, and Computational Study of the 
Interaction of Reduced Forms of N -Methyl -4,4’-Bipyridinium with CO2. ChemElectroChem 2020 , 7 (2), 
469-475. DOI: 10.1002/celc.201901884.  
(135) Ranjan, R.; Olson, J.; Singh, P.; Lorance, E. D.; Buttry, D. A.; Gould, I. R. Reversible Electrochemical 
Trapping of Carbon Dioxide Using 4,4′ -Bipyridine That Does Not Require Thermal Activation. Journal of 
Physical Chemistry Letters 2015 , 6 (24), 4 943-4946. DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b02220.  
(136) Singh, P.; Rheinhardt, J. H.; Olson, J. Z.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Mujica, V.; Buttry, D. A. Electrochemical 
Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using a Disulfide –Thiocarbonate Redox Cycle. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2017, 139 (3), 1033 -1036. DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b10806.  
(137) Bell, W. L.; Miedaner, A.; Smart, J. C.; DuBois, D. L.; Verostko, C. E. Synthesis and Evaluation of 
Electroactive CO₂ Carriers. SAE Transactions 1988 , 97, 544 -552. (acccessed 2020/04/04/).JSTOR.  
(138 ) Namazian, M.; Zare, H. R.; Yousofian -Varzaneh, H. Electrochemical behavior of tetrafluoro -p-
benzoquinone at the presence of carbon dioxide: Experimental and theoretical studies. Electrochim. 
Acta 2016 , 196, 692 -698. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electac ta.2016.02.159 . 
(139) Zito, A. M.; Bím, D.; Vargas, S.; Alexandrova, A. N.; Yang, J. Y. Computational and Experimental 
Design of Quinones for Electrochemical CO2 Capture and Concentration. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & 
Engineering 2022 , 10 (34), 11387 -11395.  DOI: 10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c03463.  
(140) Comeau Simpson, T.; Durand, R. R. Reactivity of carbon dioxide with quinones. Electrochim. Acta 
1990 , 35 (9), 1399 -1403. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/0013 -4686(90)85012 -C. 
(141) Schimanofsky, C.; Wielend, D.; Kröl l, S.; Lerch, S.; Werner, D.; Gallmetzer, J. M.; Mayr, F.; 
Neugebauer, H.; Irimia -Vladu, M.; Portenkirchner, E.; et al. Direct Electrochemical CO2 Capture Using 
Substituted Anthraquinones in Homogeneous Solutions: A Joint Experimental and Theoretical Study . The 
Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022 , 126 (33), 14138 -14154. DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03129.  
(142) Gupta, N.; Linschitz, H. Hydrogen -Bonding and Protonation Effects in Electrochemistry of Quinones 
in Aprotic Solvents. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997 , 119 (27),  6384 -6391. DOI: 10.1021/ja970028j.   51 (143) De Sousa Bulhõesw, L. O.; Zara, A. J. The effect of carbon dioxide on the electroreduction of 1,4 -
benzoquinone. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry and Interfacial Electrochemistry 1988 , 248 (1), 159 -
165. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/0022 -0728(88)85158 -1. 
(144) Aranzaes, J. R.; Daniel, M. -C.; Astruc, D. Metallocenes as references for the determination of redox 
potentials by cyclic voltammetry — Permethylated iron and cobalt sandwich complexes, inhibition by 
polya mine dendrimers, and the role of hydroxy -containing ferrocenes. Can. J. Chem. 2006 , 84 (2), 288 -
299. DOI: 10.1139/v05 -262.  
(145) Zanello, P. Inorganic Electrochemistry: Theory, Practice and Application ; 2003.  
(146) Fan, H.; Cheng, L.; Jin, B. Investigation on electrochemical capture of CO2 in p -Benzoquinone 
solutions by in situ FT -IR spectroelectrochemistry. Electrochim. Acta 2019 , 324, 134882. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.134882 . 
(147) Voskian , S.; Hatton, T. A. Faradaic electro -swing reactive adsorption for CO2 capture. Energy & 
Environmental Science 2019 , 12 (12), 3530 -3547. DOI: 10.1039/C9EE02412C.  
(148) Liu, Y.; Ye, H. -Z.; Diederichsen, K. M.; Van Voorhis, T.; Hatton, T. A. Electrochemicall y mediated 
carbon dioxide separation with quinone chemistry in salt -concentrated aqueous media. Nature 
Communications 2020 , 11 (1), 2278. DOI: 10.1038/s41467 -020-16150 -7. 
(149) Nagaoka, T.; Okazaki, S.; Fujinaga, T. Ion -pair effects on the electroreduction  of carbonyl 
compounds in N, -Dimethylformamide. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry and Interfacial 
Electrochemistry 1982 , 133 (1), 89 -99. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/0022 -0728(82)87008 -3. 
(150) Kim, Y. -R.; Kim, R. S.; Kang, S. K.; Choi, M. G.; Kim, H.  Y.; Cho, D.; Lee, J. Y.; Chang, S. -K.; Chung, T. D. 
Modulation of Quinone PCET Reaction by Ca2+ Ion Captured by Calix[4]quinone in Water. J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 2013 , 135 (50), 18957 -18967. DOI: 10.1021/ja410406e.  
(151) Peover, M. E.; Davies, J. D. The influen ce of ion -association on the polarography of quinones in 
dimethylformamide. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry (1959) 1963 , 6 (1), 46 -53. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/0022 -0728(63)80116 -3. 
(152) Aimoto, Y.; Koshiba, K.; Yamauchi, K.; Sakai, K. A family  of molecular nickel hydrogen evolution 
catalysts providing tunable overpotentials using ligand -centered proton -coupled electron transfer paths. 
Chemical Communications 2018 , 54 (91), 12820 -12823, 10.1039/C8CC07467D. DOI: 
10.1039/C8CC07467D.  
(153) Delgado,  M.; Wolf, R. E.; Hartman, J. R.; McCafferty, G.; Yagbasan, R.; Rawle, S. C.; Watkin, D. J.; 
Cooper, S. R. Redox -active crown ethers. Electrochemical and electron paramagnetic resonance studies 
on alkali metal complexes of quinone crown ethers. J. Am. Chem . Soc. 1992 , 114 (23), 8983 -8991. DOI: 
10.1021/ja00049a032.  
(154) Eggins, B. R. Interpretation of electrochemical reduction and oxidation waves of quinone –
hydroquinone system in acetonitrile. Journal of the Chemical Society D: Chemical Communications 1969 ,  
(21), 1267 -1268, 10.1039/C29690001267. DOI: 10.1039/C29690001267.  
(155) Barlow, J. M.; Yang, J. Y. Oxygen -Stable Electrochemical CO2 Capture and Concentration with 
Quinones Using Alcohol Additives. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022 , 144 (31), 14161 -14169. DOI: 
10.1 021/jacs.2c04044.  
(156) Kajiwara, T.; Yamaguchi, T.; Kido, H.; Kawabata, S.; Kuroda, R.; Ito, T. A dinucleating 
bis(dimethylcyclam) ligand and its dinickel(II) and dizinc(II) complexes with the face -to-face ring 
arrangement. Inorg. Chem. 1993 , 32 (23), 499 0-4991. DOI: 10.1021/ic00075a003.  
(157) Murase, I.; Vuckovic, G.; Kodera, M.; Harada, H.; Matsumoto, N.; Kida, S. Synthesis and 
characterization of copper(II), nickel(II), and cobalt(II) binuclear complexes with a new tricyclic 
octadentate ligand, 1,5,8,12 ,15,19,22,26 -octaazatricyclo[17.9.2.25,15]dotriacontane (tcoa): trapping of 
carbon dioxide in a neutral aqueous solution. Inorg. Chem. 1991 , 30 (4), 728 -733. DOI: 
10.1021/ic00004a024.   52 (158) Harada, H.; Kodera, M.; Vuckovic, G.; Matsumoto, N.; Kida, S. Prep aration and redox chemistry of 
novel carbonato -bridged cobalt(II) complexes with 1,4,8,11 -tetrakis(2 -aminoethyl) -1,4,8,11 -
tetraazacyclotetradecane and 1,4,8,11 -tetrakis(pyridylmethyl) -1,4,8,11 -tetraazacyclotetradecane. Inorg. 
Chem. 1991 , 30 (6), 1190 -1194.  DOI: 10.1021/ic00006a007.  
(159) Newell, R.; Appel, A.; DuBois, D. L.; Rakowski DuBois, M. Studies of Bicarbonate Binding by 
Dinuclear and Mononuclear Ni(II) Complexes. Inorg. Chem. 2005 , 44 (2), 365 -373. DOI: 
10.1021/ic049202c.  
(160) Ranjan, R.; Olson, J. ; Singh, P.; Lorance, E. D.; Buttry, D. A.; Gould, I. R. Reversible Electrochemical 
Trapping of Carbon Dioxide Using 4,4′ -Bipyridine That Does Not Require Thermal Activation. The Journal 
of Physical Chemistry Letters 2015 , 6 (24), 4943 -4946. DOI: 10.1021/a cs.jpclett.5b02220.  
(161) Stueber, D.; Orendt, A. M.; Facelli, J. C.; Parry, R. W.; Grant, D. M. Carbonates, Thiocarbonates, and 
the Corresponding Monoalkyl Derivatives: III. The 13C Chemical Shift Tensors in Potassium Carbonate, 
Bicarbonate and Related Mo nomethyl Derivatives. Solid State Nucl. Magn. Reson. 2002 , 22 (1), 29 -49. 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1006/snmr.2002.0061 . 
(162) Stueber, D.; Arif, A. M.; Grant, D. M.; Parry, R. W. Carbonates, Thiocarbonates, and the 
Corresponding Monoalkyl Derivatives. 2. X -ray Crystal Structure of Potassium Methyltrithiocarbonate 
(KS2CSCH3). Inorg. Chem. 2001 , 40 (8), 1912 -1914. DOI: 10.1021/ic001227y.  
(163) Harris, D.; Bushnell, E. Density Functional Theory Study of the Capture and Release of Carbon 
Dioxide by Benzyl –Disulf ide, −Diselenide, and −Ditelluride. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2019 , 123 
(15), 3383 -3388. DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpca.9b01862.  
(164) Gangi, D. A.; Durand, R. R. Binding of carbon dioxide to cobalt and nickel tetra -aza macrocycles. J. 
Chem. Soc., Chem. C ommun. 1986 ,  (9), 697 -699, 10.1039/C39860000697. DOI: 10.1039/C39860000697.  
(165) Bard, A. J.; Faulkner, L. R. Electrochemical Methods: Fundamentals and Application ; John Wiley & 
Sons, Inc., 2001.  
(166) Creutz, C.; Schwarz, H. A.; Wishart, J. F.; Fujita, E.; Sutin, N. Thermodynamics and kinetics of carbon 
dioxide binding to two stereoisomers of a cobalt(I) macrocycle in aqueous solution. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
1991 , 113 (9), 3361 -3371. DOI: 10.1021/ja00009a022.  
(167) Creutz, C. Chapter 2 - Carbon Dioxide Bindin g to Transition -Metal Centers. In Electrochemical and 
Electrocatalytic Reactions of Carbon Dioxide , Sullivan, B. P. Ed.; Elsevier, 1993; pp 19 -67. 
(168) Benesi, H. A.; Hildebrand, J. H. A Spectrophotometric Investigation of the Interaction of Iodine with 
Aromatic Hydrocarbons. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1949 , 71 (8), 2703 -2707. DOI: 10.1021/ja01176a030.  
 
 