Trade-Off between Redox Potential and the Strength of Electrochemical CO2 Capture in Quinones
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03752
Download Hi-Res ImageDownload to MS-PowerPointCite This:J. Phys. Chem. C 2022, 126, 33, 14163-14172
ADVERTISEMENT
RETURN TO ISSUEPREVC: Chemical and Cata...C: Chemical and Catalytic Reactivity at InterfacesNEXTGet e-AlertscloseTrade-Off between Redox Potential and the Strength of Electrochemical CO2 Capture in QuinonesAnna T. BuiAnna T. BuiYusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United KingdomMore by Anna T. Buihttps://orcid.org/0000-0003-0981-4329, Niamh A. HartleyNiamh A. HartleyYusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United KingdomMore by Niamh A. Hartleyhttps://orcid.org/0000-0003-1381-9026, Alex J. W. Thom*Alex J. W. ThomYusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom*Email: ajwt3@cam.ac.ukMore by Alex J. W. Thomhttps://orcid.org/0000-0002-2417-7869, and Alexander C. Forse*Alexander C. ForseYusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom*Email: acf50@cam.ac.ukMore by Alexander C. Forsehttps://orcid.org/0000-0001-9592-9821Cite this: J. Phys. Chem. C 2022, 126, 33, 14163–14172Publication Date (Web):August 12, 2022Publication History
Received31 May 2022Revised27 July 2022Published online12 August 2022Published inissue 25 August 2022https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03752Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by American
Chemical Society. This publication is licensed under
CC-BY 4.0.
License Summary*You are free to share (copy and redistribute) this article in any medium or format and to adapt (remix, transform, and build upon) the material for any purpose, even commercially within the parameters below:Creative Commons (CC): This is a Creative Commons license.Attribution (BY): Credit must be given to the creator.View full license*DisclaimerThis summary highlights only some of the key features and terms of the
actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. Carefully
review the actual license before using these materials.
This publication is Open Access under the license indicated.
Learn MoreArticle Views3007Altmetric11Citations2LEARN ABOUT THESE METRICSArticle Views are the COUNTER-compliant sum of full text article downloads since November 2008 (both PDF and HTML) across all institutions and individuals. These metrics are regularly updated to reflect usage leading up to the last few days.Citations are the number of other articles citing this article, calculated by Crossref and updated daily. Find more information about Crossref citation counts.The Altmetric Attention Score is a quantitative measure of the attention that a research article has received online. Clicking on the donut icon will load a page at altmetric.com with additional details about the score and the social media presence for the given article. Find more information on the Altmetric Attention Score and how the score is calculated.
Share
Add toView InAdd Full Text with ReferenceAdd Description
ExportRISCitationCitation and abstractCitation and referencesMore Options
Share onFacebookTwitterWechatLinked InReddit
PDF (3 MB)
Get e-AlertscloseSupporting Info (1)»Supporting Information
Supporting Information
SUBJECTS:Electrochemical reduction,Quinones,Show MoreGet e-Alertsclose
The Journal of Physical Chemistry C
Get e-AlertsAbstractHigh Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideElectrochemical carbon dioxide capture recently emerged as a promising alternative approach to conventional energy-intensive carbon-capture methods. A common electrochemical capture approach is to employ redox-active molecules such as quinones. Upon electrochemical reduction, quinones become activated for the capture of CO2 through a chemical reaction. A key disadvantage of this method is the possibility of side-reactions with oxygen, which is present in almost all gas mixtures of interest for carbon capture. This issue can potentially be mitigated by fine-tuning redox potentials through the introduction of electron-withdrawing groups on the quinone ring. In this article, we investigate the thermodynamics of the electron transfer and chemical steps of CO2 capture in different quinone derivatives with a range of substituents. By combining density functional theory calculations and cyclic voltammetry experiments, we support a previously described trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture. We show that redox potentials can readily be tuned to more positive values to impart stability to oxygen, but significant decreases in CO2 binding free energies are observed as a consequence. Our calculations support this effect for a large series of anthraquinones and benzoquinones. Different trade-off relationships were observed for the two classes of molecules. These trade-offs must be taken into consideration in the design of improved redox-active molecules for electrochemical CO2 capture.This publication is licensed under CC-BY 4.0.
License Summary*You are free to share (copy and redistribute) this article in any medium or format and to adapt (remix, transform, and build upon) the material for any purpose, even commercially within the parameters below:Creative Commons (CC): This is a Creative Commons license.
Attribution (BY): Credit must be given to the creator.View full license*DisclaimerThis summary highlights only some of the key features and terms of the
actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. Carefully
review the actual license before using these materials.
License Summary*You are free to share (copy and redistribute) this article in any medium or format and to adapt (remix, transform, and build upon) the material for any purpose, even commercially within the parameters below:Creative Commons (CC): This is a Creative Commons
license.
Attribution (BY): Credit must be given to the creator.
View full license*DisclaimerThis summary highlights only some of the key features and terms of the
actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. Carefully
review the actual license before using these materials.
License Summary*You are free to share (copy and redistribute) this article in any medium or format and to adapt (remix, transform, and build upon) the material for any purpose, even commercially within the parameters below:Creative Commons (CC): This is a Creative Commons
license.
Attribution (BY): Credit must be given to the creator.
View full license*DisclaimerThis summary highlights only some of the key features and terms of the
actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. Carefully
review the actual license before using these materials.
IntroductionARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesAnthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emission is the major contributor to global climate change, (1) which presents an urgent challenge to our society. (2,3) One of the many important mitigation strategies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is carbon capture. Conventional carbon capture technology involves wet chemical scrubbing using aqueous amines to absorb CO2 either at industrial sources or directly from the air for further sequestration. (4) This strategy, however, has many limitations, including low capacities, poor oxidative stability, degradation in the presence of contaminants and large thermal energy demand for absorbent regeneration. (4−6) In the search for new materials and technologies for carbon capture, electrochemically mediated CO2 capture has emerged as a promising approach. (7−10) A popular strategy is to use redox-active organic compounds as CO2 carriers, with quinones being the most representative class of compounds. (11) The electrochemical reduction of quinones generates oxyanion nucleophiles, which have high binding affinities toward CO2 and have been reported to concentrate and selectively separate CO2. (11−16) The biggest advantage is that quinones can be electrochemically regenerated, leading to energy savings over traditional temperature- or pressure-swing processes.While the recently reported use of quinone-functionalized electrodes is promising, (17) questions remain about the molecular mechanism of this process and whether it is possible to increase its oxidative stability by carefully tuning the electron density of the quinones. In the presence of oxygen (O2), a loss in CO2 capture ability has been observed, (17) as reduced quinones can be reoxidized while O2 is reduced. (18) If the quinone structures can be tuned to have sufficiently positive reduction potentials by subsituting functional groups on the aromatic rings, it may be possible to avoid the side-reactions with O2. However, by tuning the redox potentials, one will also change the CO2 capture ability of the quinones. Early experimental work by DuBois first illustrated the trade-off between reduction potentials and CO2 binding constants. (11) They found a linear relationship between the CO2 binding constant and the second reduction potential for a series of four functionalized benzoquinones and phenanthrenequinone. More recent experiments on benzoquinones have supported this trade-off, (19) while other studies have further explored how functionalization impacts the chemistry of electrochemical CO2 capture by quinones. (20,21)Despite this progress, a complete assessment of the relationship between redox potentials and CO2 capture abilities in a wide range of redox-active molecules has not been carried out. We believe this is because (i) quantifying the thermodynamic driving force of CO2 capture through CV experiments alone is challenging and (ii) a systematic electrochemical study of quinone derivatives with a different number of substituents and different functional groups is not easily accessible experimentally. Both these challenges can be tackled computationally through quantum chemical calculations. As quinones and their derivatives are also of interest in energy storage applications, several studies have computationally examined their redox properties, including the effect of electron-donating groups (EDGs) and electron-withdrawing groups (EWGs), (22,23) substituent pattern effects, (24) and structure–property relationships. (25) Most of these works are based on density functional theory (DFT), which has proven to be an affordable and reliable way to study redox properties of organic molecules. (26,27) However, it is worth emphasizing that these previous studies did not examine electrochemical CO2 capture.In this article, we provide a detailed assessment of the relationship between redox potentials and CO2 capture abilities of different anthraquinone (AQ) and benzoquinone (BQ) derivatives. This is done both experimentally with CV and computationally with DFT calculations of the Gibbs free-energy change upon CO2 capture. Our results support a general trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture in a wide range of functionalized anthraquinones and benzoquinones. This trade-off has important implications in increasing the efficiency of future electrochemical CO2 capture technologies.MethodsARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferences Experimental Section MaterialsAnthraquinone (AQ, 97%), octafluoroanthraquinone (AQ-F8, 96%), 1,4-methoxyanthraquinone (1,4-OMe-AQ, >99%), 1,4-difluoroanthraquinone (1,4-F-AQ, 98%), ferrocene (Fc), and tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate (TBAPF6) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. 1-Chloroanthraquinone (1-Cl-AQ, 98%) was purchased from Thermo Fisher Scientific. 2-Chloroanthraquinone (2-Cl-AQ, >99%) was purchased from Chemcruz Enterprises Ltd. 1-Hydroxyanthraquinone (1-OH-AQ, >95%) was purchased from Cayman Chemical Company. Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was purchased from Thermo Fisher Scientific. All chemicals were used without further purification. Electrochemical ExperimentsCyclic voltammetry measurements were carried out with a standard three-electrode cell using a BioLogic Sp-150 system with BioLogic EC-Lab software. Electrochemical measurements were conducted in a glass cell. The glassy carbon working electrode, the platinum wire counter electrode and the leak-free Ag/AgCl reference electrode were all purchased from Alvatek. After measurements were taken, 5 mM Fc was used as the internal standard. Tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate in DMSO (0.1M) was used as the electrolyte. Before the gas was purged, 1 mM quinone was stirred into the electrolyte. The solution was purged under N2 for 2 h while stirring. For electrochemical tests with quinones under CO2, the electrolyte was bubbled with 100% CO2 for 2 h before experiments were run. All the measurements were recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1. Computational SectionDFT calculations were performed in Q-Chem 5.3. (28) Thermodynamic quantities were calculated for the species involved in the EEC and EECC mechanisms (detailed in the section Reaction Scheme and Oxyanion Nucleophilicity). For each quinone derivative involved, the gas-phase geometry was optimized at the B3LYP/6-311++G** level (29−32) and the thermodynamic quantities were calculated at T = 298.15 K and P = 1 atm. For unsymmetrical quinone derivatives, species involved were modeled as isomers with minimal steric hindrance. Self-consistent field (SCF) calculations were considered to have converged when the wave function direct inversion in the iterative subspace (DIIS) error was less than 10–11. At the end of each successful geometry optimization, the structure was checked to ensure it was a real minimum on the potential energy surface and thermodynamic corrections were obtained by vibrational frequency analysis.The SMD implicit solvation model (33) has been reported to agree well with experimental data for the computation of reduction potentials of quinone derivatives. (22) Using the optimized gas-phase geometries, single-point energy calculations were performed with the SMD model using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as the solvent. Gas-phase geometries were considered throughout to eliminate the dependency on the solvent model; this can be justified by the fact that there is almost no significant change in the geometry upon optimization in an implicit solvation model. Previously, it was also shown that for quinones, there is no real added value of performing geometry optimizations with implicit solvation, not to mention that these calculations are also computationally more demanding. (27)The reduction potentials for the electron transfer steps were calculated by considering the half-reaction(1)For an n-electron reduction of quinones in solvent, the absolute reduction potential of the half reaction is given by the Nernst equation(2)where Grxn° is the standard Gibbs free energy per coulomb of charge transferred during the reaction, n is the number of electrons, and F is the Faraday constant. The Gibbs free energy of a redox species in solution is given by(3)where Ugas denotes the Born–Oppenheimer equilibrium potential energy, E0,gas denotes the vibrational zero-point energy, H denotes the enthalpic contribution, TSgas denotes the entropic contribution to the Gibbs free energy at T = 298.15 K in the gas phase, and Fsolv denotes the solvation free energy from the solvation model. Ab initio calculations of reduction potentials performed using the thermodynamic cycle have been covered in more detail elsewhere. (34) Since experimental reduction potentials are measured relative to a reference electrode potential, theoretical calculations are typically carried out for a half-cell reaction with the subtraction of a reference electrode. The ab initio E° might agree quantitatively with the experimental value; however, the two are not directly equivalent due to cell resistance, concentration dependence, or the lack of a better solvation treatment in calculations. (35,36) Therefore, the potentials were calculated relative to those of a reference compound, rather than as absolute potentials, to remove the influence of systematic errors between the experimental conditions used here and those used to determine absolute potentials of reference compounds reported elsewhere. AQ was chosen as the reference compound, and isodesmic reaction schemes for the reduction and oxidation of are given as follows:(4)Using the ΔGrxn° = –nFErxn° relationship,(5)For both EEC and EECC mechanisms, the electron transfer EE steps are considered a single two-electron reduction, and the calculated E° values are given in reference to Fc+/Fc. For the chemical steps C or CC, the standard Gibbs free energies (ΔGC° or ΔGCC°) are given.Results and DiscussionARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferences Reaction Scheme and Oxyanion NucleophilicityIn this work, we consider two different quinone-mediated electrochemical CO2 capture mechanisms, known as “EEC” and “EECC” (Figure 1a). In these mechanisms, two electron transfer (E) steps occur before any chemical (C) CO2 capturing step, which has been supported by a previous CV analysis of EWG-substituted quinones at a low CO2 concentration. (17,19−21,37) Since our goal is to mitigate side-reactions of reduced quinones with O2, our main interest is to add EWGs to stabilize the reduced quinones, increasing the likelihood of both electrochemical reduction steps being required prior to any CO2 capture. The electrochemical reduction occurs as(6)(7)where Q is the neutral quinone, Q•– is the semiquinone radical anion, and Q2– is the quinone dianion. In the absence of CO2, the CV of anthraquinone in DMSO exhibited the two expected reduction waves corresponding to the processes in eqs 6 and 7 at potentials of E1° = −1.3 V and E2° = −1.9 V vs Fc+/Fc, respectively, when midpoint potentials were used (Figure 1b). We further combine the two reduction steps into an “EE” step according to(8)since the combined two-electron reduction potential (EEE°) from DFT is also more accurate than the separate one-electron reduction potentials (E1° and E2°), as detailed in the next section.Figure 1Figure 1. EEC and EECC reaction schemes for electrochemical CO2 capture by AQ. (a) The stepwise EEC reaction scheme employed in the DFT calculations includes two electron transfer steps followed by one chemical step. The EECC scheme includes one further chemical step. (b) Experimental CV of AQ (1 mM in DMSO) under N2 recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1, with cathodic and anodic peaks labeled with oxidation and reduction species, respectively. (c) Orbitals representing the nucleophilic lone pairs (LP) and the O–CO2 bond (BD) formed based on the NBO analysis of DFT results.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideIn the EEC scheme previously proposed as the capture mechanism for quinones with more than two EWG substituents, (11,19,20) a single capture event occurs after electrochemical reduction.(9)Here Q(CO2)2– is the monocarbonate dianion. The Gibbs free energy associated with this step is given as ΔGC°. We also investigate the EECC scheme proposed for quinones with mono- and disubstitutions of EWGs, (11,20) where two capturing events are modeled as a “CC” step according to(10)Here Q(CO2)22– is the dicarbonate dianion, representing the theoretical maximum capture ability of quinones. The Gibbs free energy associated with this step is given as ΔGCC°.Importantly, other electrochemical capture mechanisms are possible, most notably the ECEC scheme, where after the first reduction step Q•– reacts with CO2 to form the semicarbonate radical anion Q(CO2)•–, as suggested in studies of EDG-substituted quinones at high CO2 concentrations. (12,16,21,37) We do not consider this mechanism here due to the challenges in modeling CO2 capture by radical anions using DFT, (38−41) which is a limitation of our study.We first explored the CO2 capture steps for anthraquinone using DFT calculations. The localized orbital forms representing the lone pairs (LPs) and two-electron two-center bonds (BDs) were decomposed from the DFT wave function by natural bond orbital analysis (NBO) (Figure 1c). (42) Upon reduction, the quinone C–O bond length increases (Table 1), and NBO analysis shows a change from the C–O π-orbital in Q to a lone pair on O in Q2– (SI), which is consistent with the canonical Lewis structures. For each carbon capture event, a LP on an oxygen acts as a nucleophile and attacks a CO2 molecule, forming a C–O BD to CO2 (Figure 1c). It is clear that this oxygen LP and its electron density govern the nucleophilicity and CO2 capture ability of Q2–. Upon the second carbon capture event (which is only relevant in the EECC mechanism), the bond length of O–CO2 decreases and the quinone C–O bond length increases (Table 1), suggesting a decrease in bonding affinity toward CO2. This decrease is consistent with the carbonate group withdrawing electron density from the initially free oxyanion center.Table 1. C–O Bond Lengths from DFT CalculationsaspeciesC–O quinone (Å)O–CO2 (Å)Q1.220 Q•–1.257 Q2–1.291 Q(CO2)2–1.269/1.3801.495Q(CO2)22–1.3561.553aFor Q(CO2)2–, the values are given for the C–O bond of the quinone on the sides where CO2 is and is not bound. Benchmarking Reduction Potentials of Substituted Anthraquinones from CV and DFTBefore proceeding to study the effect of quinone functionalization on electrochemical CO2 capture, we compared the computed and experimental CV redox potentials for selected AQ derivatives to evaluate the reliability of the DFT calculations. Figure 2a shows structures of the derivatives and Figure 2b shows the corresponding CVs in DMSO under N2. The midpoint potentials of the pair of redox peaks in the CV were taken as single-reduction potentials E1° and E2°. The average of E1° and E2° was then taken as the double-reduction potential EEE°. The corresponding values calculated from DFT (detailed in the Methods section) are compared to experimental single and double reduction potentials, as shown in Figure 2c and d, respectively.Figure 2Figure 2. Reduction potentials of selected AQ derivatives. (a) Structures of all selected compounds. (b) CVs of AQ derivatives (1 mM in DMSO) recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1 under N2. (c) Comparison of single-reduction potentials from CV and DFT. (d) Comparison of double-reduction potentials from CV and DFT. DFT reduction potentials were calculated with reference to AQ.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideIn all cases, E1° is more positive than E2°, as it is easier to reduce Q than Q•–. This is because (i) the gain of an electron is more favorable for neutral Q than for negatively charged Q•– on electrostatic grounds and (ii) there is a greater contribution from solvation to the reduction driving force for the second reduction than the first reduction (Figure S4).When EWGs are substituted, as in the case of -Cl and -F, the reduction potentials become more positive for both CV and DFT results (Figure 2c and d, respectively). This trend agrees with previous studies (21,22,25) and is consistent with the electron density on the reduced quinones being more delocalized, making reduction more thermodynamically favorable. Positional effects observed in the experiments and calculations for the case of -Cl also agree; substitution at the 2-position shifts EEE° to a more positive value than that at the 1-position. This trend is consistent with greater delocalization of electron density when Cl is substituted at the 2-position with a larger LUMO coefficient in Q (Figure S1). The largest shift of 0.4 V due to multiple substitutions in the case of octafluoroanthraquinone AQ-F8 is also well predicted by DFT.When EDGs are substituted, as in the case of -OMe, the reduction potentials become more negative for both the CV and DFT results as the reduced forms become disfavored. In the case of -OH, however, intramolecular hydrogen-bonding stabilizes the Q2– form such that an overall increase in EEE° is observed. This increase is supported by the change in the DFT geometry, where the hydroxyl proton in Q is transferred to the quinone O following electrochemical reduction (Figure S2).While the computed EEE° values generally compare favorably with experimental measurements, with errors less than 0.05 V, there are greater deviations in the trend for E1° and E2°. We believe this due to a well-known problem in DFT of describing certain radical anions of atoms and small molecules. (38−41) Treating EE as a single two-electron reduction step (eq 8) allows the radical semiquinone anion Q•– to be bypassed, the accurate treatment of which calls for a higher level of theory. Overall, the good agreement between computed and experimental EEE° values validated the use of the DFT approach to study the electrochemical reduction of quinones and enabled us to explore a wider range of functional group substitutions, as shown in the next section. Effect of Tuning the Quinone Electron Density on the Electrochemical CO2 Capture ThermodynamicsWe now explore how varying the electron density of quinones impacts electrochemical CO2 capture through a F-substituted AQ series. F is a good candidate to use for fine-tuning because (i) F substituents tend to show a strong negative inductive effect of an EWG that predominates the positive resonance effect of an EDG, (24) (ii) there are various ways to fluorinate AQ selectively, (43−45) and (iii) the small size of F minimizes steric effects, whereas larger substituents can decrease the CO2 capture ability, as previously observed in Cl-substituted quinones. (20)The thermodynamics governing the electron transfer and chemical steps for AQ derivatives with an increasing number of F substituents were quantified using DFT calculations. Figure 3a shows that the computed EEE° values increase from −1.54 to −1.17 V against Fc+/Fc upon the substitution of 1–8 F atoms, respectively, and is generally directly proportional to the number of F substitutions made. As more electron density is withdrawn from the oxygens in the Q2– anion, the reduced form is more delocalized and stabilized against reoxidation. The increase in the reduction potential varies slightly for different substitution positions for F, as seen previously in the cases of other substituents. (22−24) When EDGs are substituted instead, the opposite effect is observed (Figure S3). Overall, increasing the number of F substitutions leads to an approximately linear increase in the reduction potentials of AQ. In the context of electrochemical CO2 capture, the EE step (eq 8) is more thermodynamically favorable, as the electron density of quinones is tuned by the increasing number of EWGs, which should impart improved stability in oxygen.Figure 3Figure 3. Calculated reduction potentials and capture abilities of F-substituted AQ derivatives. (a) Variation in the reduction potential for two-electron reduction. (b) Variation in the Gibbs free-energy changes for single CO2 capture (EEC scheme) and double CO2 capture (EECC scheme). The shifts are plotted relative to unsubstituted AQ. The actual energies and positions of the substutions are given in the SI. (c) Experimental CVs of unsubstituted AQ, 1,4-F-AQ, and AQ-F8 recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1 under both N2 and CO2.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideWe then evaluated the thermodynamics of the chemical CO2 capture step for our F-substituted AQ series (Figure 3b). For the EEC scheme, the computed Gibbs free energy change ΔGC° increases by 20 kJ mol–1 upon the substitution of 1–8 F atoms. Again, the effect is approximately linear (solid line in Figure 3b), and there is no consistent trend in the position of substitution. This effect can be explained by considering the electron density available in Q2– for bonding with CO2 to form Q(CO2)2–. AQ-F8 has a lower charge density on the oxygen than unsubstituted AQ in its Q2– form and therefore has a lower affinity for binding to CO2. The O–CO2 bond length of the Q(CO2)2– form calculated by DFT is 1.529 Å in AQ-F8 compared to 1.495 Å in AQ, indicating that a weaker bond is formed due to more electron density being delocalized away from the oxygens in Q2–. Similarly for the EECC scheme, increasing the number of F substitutions also leads to an approximately linear increase in the Gibbs free-energy change ΔGC° in the capture of two CO2 (dashed line in Figure 3b). The trend line for the EECC scheme has a gradient slightly larger than twice that of the EECC scheme, which consistent with the second CO2 being less thermodynamically favorable than the first (Figure S4). Overall, in the context of electrochemical CO2 capture, the chemical steps become less thermodynamically favorable as more EWGs are added, supporting a trade-off between redox potential and CO2 affinity, as suggested by previous experimental work on functionalized benzoquinones. (11,19)To explore this result experimentally, we recorded the CVs of unsubstituted AQ, 1,4-F-AQ, and AQ-F8 under both N2 and CO2 (Figure 3c). For all cases, the reduction wave positions of the first electron transfer (eq 6) remain unchanged in the presence and absence of CO2. This behavior is in line with the quinone in all cases needing to be first activated by reduction to Q•– or Q2– before capturing CO2, as observed in previous studies. (21) For both AQ and 1,4-F-AQ, the second reduction wave (eq 7) appears to shift underneath the first reduction wave, in agreement with previous work. (16,17) In contrast, for AQ-F8, the shift of the second reduction wave is smaller, and two redox processes can be clearly observed under CO2. The smaller positive shift of the second reduction peak the indicates that the stabilization of the reduced species by CO2 is lower for AQ-F8 than for AQ and 1,4-F-AQ and suggests a smaller binding constant to CO2, (19,21) as predicted by our DFT calculations. The reduction in the height of the second reduction wave for AQ-F8 is an indication of some reactivity with CO2, forming either Q(CO2)2– or Q(CO2)22– species. (12) Overall, these experimental results are qualitatively consistent with the predictions of our DFT calculations, providing support for the calculated trade-off between the redox potential and the CO2 capture strength. A more detailed study of the detailed capture mechanisms of these molecules is beyond the scope of this work and is under investigation in our laboratory. Trade-Off between the Redox Potential and the Strength of CO2 CaptureThe above results indicate that by adding EWGs we are simultaneously making electrochemical reduction more favorable and carbon capture less favorable, supporting the early work of DuBois. (11) Therefore, when designing quinone derivatives for electrochemical CO2 capture, to enhance efficiency, a balance between favoring electron transfer and chemical steps must be taken into account. Focusing on the EEC scheme of the F-substituted AQ series, this trade-off can be seen clearly by combining panels a and b in Figure 3 into a plot of the shift in ΔGC° versus the shift in EEE°, as shown in Figure 4a. The shifts are plotted relative to the unsubstituted AQ and regions, where each step is favored or disfavored and color-coded accordingly. The linear solid blue trend line that emerges confirms the unfavorable relationship between the thermodynamics of cathodic activation and the nucleophilic addition of CO2.Figure 4Figure 4. Trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture for the (a and b) EEC and (c and d) EECC mechanisms. The computed shift in the Gibbs free-energy change for the chemical steps is plotted against the shift in the two-electron reduction potential EE in DMSO computed for (a and c) multiple F-substituted AQ and BQ derivatives and (b and d) the monosubsituted AQ derivatives. The solid blue line and the dashed red line are the best fits for the F-series of AQ and BQ, respectively. The shifts are plotted relative to unsubstituted AQ.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideAn avenue to break the observed trade-off could be to explore alternative capture agents beyond anthraquinone. Calculations on substituted benzoquinones (BQ) also revealed a trade-off between the redox potential and the CO2 capture strength (dashed red line in Figure 4a), though interestingly we found that both the reduction and carbon capture steps become more thermodynamically favorable relative to AQ, i.e., different trade-off relationships were found for functionalized BQ and AQ molecules. The downside of BQ, however, is that its fine-tuning ability is limited by the total number of possible substitutions. BQs are also more electrochemically unstable and susceptible to side reactions and degradation. (46) Therefore, other redox-active molecules, such as naphthoquinones, might be able to provide a better compromise and are worth investigating in future work.After demonstrating this trade-off for the F-substituted AQ and BQ series, we posed the question of whether it was possible to overcome this trade-off using other functional groups, i.e., can we favor the EE step without disfavoring the C step significantly and thus falling below the linear fit (blue solid lines in Figure 4a and b). We therefore explored a range of monosubstituted AQ derivatives with different functional groups (Figure 4b), including -F, -Cl, -Br, and -CF3 as halogen-based EWGs; -C2H3 (ethylene), -COOMe, and -CN as resonance-based EWGs; and -CH3, -OMe, and -NMe2 as EDGs. Indices 1 and 2 indicate the positions of substitution, (47) and the plot is again color-coded according to how the thermodynamics of cathodic activation and nucleophilic addition differ from those of unsubstituted AQ. The unfavorable relationship still remains: the substitution of EWGs favors the EE step but disfavors the C step, while the substitution of EDGs favors the C steps but disfavors the EE steps. For most substituents, substitution closer to the carbonyl group at position 1 leads to a higher ΔGC° due to steric hindrance between the captured CO2 and the substituents. The tuning window of these single substitutions is approximately 0.5 V for EEE° and 40 kJ mol–1 for ΔGC°. Although these monosubstituted derivatives do not all fall on the same linear fit for the F-substituted AQ series, the deviation from the trend is small. It is useful to tie these results back to the role of the electron density in the oxyanion Q2–. Delocalization of the electron density around the ring would stabilize the quinone in its dianion Q2– form, meaning the quinone is less likely to be reoxidized by O2 after being electrochemically reduced but is also less likely to have enough nucleophilicity to react with CO2.For the EECC scheme, the shift in ΔGCC° is plotted against the shift in EEE° for the F-substituted AQ series (Figure 4c) and a range of monosubstituted AQ derivatives (Figure 4d). A similar trade-off between the thermodynamics of cathodic activation and the nucleophilic addition of CO2 is seen for the EECC scheme, which has a larger gradient than that for the EEC scheme. It would therefore still be very difficult to fine-tune the electron density of AQ using these functional groups to favor both the electron transfer and chemical steps.Overall, we have demonstrated that the trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of electrochemical CO2 capture is general to the fine-tuning of quinones by functional group substitutions through (i) a different number of substituents and (ii) different types of substituents. We have also demonstrated that different trade-offs exist for different types of quinones (AQ versus BQ) and that the trade-offs are general to both the EEC and EECC mechanisms. This raises questions about whether functional group substitutions can be used to address oxygen sensitivity issues in these systems while maintaining sufficient CO2 reactivity.To assess the impact of oxygen, the CV of unsubstituted AQ under O2 in DMSO was recorded. The changes in the data support some reactivity of AQ with O2 (Figure S5). To avoid the possibility of parasitic reactions after cathodic activation, intuitively one would select a quinone with EWGs and a more positive reduction potential, assuming that the reduction potential is both a measure of how likely the reduced quinone becomes reoxidized by oxygen or chemically reacts with an electrochemically reduced oxygen species. However, as we have shown through DFT, the reactivity of the quinone to CO2 is weaker (main implication of the trade-off). Through CV experiments, we also showed the change in the form of the CV, with a smaller positive shift of the second reduction peak. Therefore, just naively adding EWGs not only reduces the CO2 capture ability but also does not necessarily solve the O2 reactivity problem. To this end, we provide some rough guidelines for fine-tuning to optimize the efficiency of quinone-mediated electrochemical CO2 capture in DMSO:(i)Unsubstituted anthraquinone shows some reactivity with O2, so some sort of substitution is likely to be necessary for this molecule.(ii)Substitutions of bulky functional groups are undesirable on steric grounds.(iii)For anthraquinone, substitutions at the 2-position create less steric hindrance for CO2 capture than those at the 1-position and thus are advantageous for tuning the redox potentials while maintaining CO2 reactivity.(iv)A combination of different functional groups for multiple substitutions might be necessary, i.e., EDGs at certain positions and EWGs at others, to avoid the trade-off.(v)Functionalized anthraquinones and benzoquinones are subject to different trade-off lines, so the exploration of different classes of molecules is a promising avenue in the search for oxygen-stable electrochemical CO2 capture.These guidelines are admittedly crude, relying on the assumptions that the reaction with CO2 proceeds through an EEC or EECC mechanism and that the half-wave potential of O2 does not change in the presence of quinone species. Moreover, other factors, including but not limited to CO2 concentration, temperature, electrolyte concentrations, and solvents, are likely to affect the desired properties of the quinones. The incorporation of these factors goes beyond the scope of the present article and these guidelines and therefore require full validation by explicit experiments and calculations in the presence of O2. However, the finding of a general trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture is of value for the design of improved redox active molecules for electrochemical carbon dioxide capture.Conclusions and OutlookARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesIn this article, we have investigated the effect of functional group substitution on the thermodynamics of electrochemical CO2 capture by quinones. Using the EEC and EECC schemes to describe the overall capture process, we have identified the electron density of the oxyanion Q2– species as the key factor governing the thermodynamics of the electrochemical reduction and carbon capture steps. After benchmarking DFT calculations of the electrode potentials relative to experimental values, we quantified the thermodynamic driving force of the electrochemical reduction and carbon capture steps.Our key findings are as follows:(i)There is a general trade-off between redox potentials and the strength of CO2 capture in a wide range of functionalized anthraquinones for the EEC and EECC mechanisms studied.(ii)There is a need to fine-tune the quinones such that the electrochemical reduction steps are favored (so side-reactions with O2 are disfavored) without disfavoring the carbon capture steps significantly.(iii)The steric bulk of the functional groups and their positions relative to the quinone oxygen impact the calculated CO2 reactivity.(iv)Different types of redox-active molecules are subject to different trade-off relationships (e.g., benzoquinoes vs anthraquinones), so the exploration of new classes of molecules may lead to oxygen-stable electrochemical CO2 capture in the future.(v)Different capture mechanisms (e.g., EEC vs EECC) are subject to trade-off relationships with different magnitudes (gradients).While we focused on anthraquinone and benzoquinone derivatives in DMSO, the methods employed here can be readily extended to other redox-active molecules, including other types of quinones (14,15) and sulfides. (48) Effects of other aprotic solvents can be easily extended with the current method using implicit solvation models, while those of ionic liquids in recent developments (15,16) are likely to call for combination with more expensive hybrid quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) approaches.The trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture has important implications in electrochemical carbon capture processes. As the unfavorable relationship comes from the inherent role of the electron density on the nucleophile, we hope to motivate the development of novel ways to work around this trade-off in the rational design of new CO2 capture materials. Of particular relevance to this work is the recent study by Simeon et al., (21) which suggested that quinones with EDG substitutions are more suitable candidates for capturing CO2 without side reactions with O2. It was proposed that these undergo a ECEC scheme, which was attributed to the disappearance of the second reduction wave in their CVs. Combining these CV analyses with the approach we employ of using DFT, one can investigate the thermodynamics of different potential capture mechanisms and see if such a trade-off still persists. We also note that very recent work has shown that electrolyte additives such as alcohols offer powerful means of tuning electrochemical CO2 capture thermodynamics (19) and can potentially overcome trade-offs between the redox potential and the carbon capture strength. Overall, our work supports a general trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of electrochemical CO2 capture and provides a foundation for the design of improved molecules and materials that can mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.Data AvailabilityARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesThe data that support the findings of this study, including optimized geometries of compounds and DFT energy calculations, are openly available at the University of Cambridge Data Repository at 10.17863/CAM.85559.Supporting InformationARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesThe Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03752.Orbital analysis of species in EEC and EECC, hydrogen bonding in the OH case, substitutions of the Me series, movement from the gas phase to the solution phase, DFT reduction potentials and free energy changes, and the CV of AQ under O2 (PDF)jp2c03752_si_001.pdf (14.49 MB)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author InformationARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesCorresponding AuthorsAlex J. W. Thom - Yusuf Hamied Department of
Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United
Kingdom;
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2417-7869;
Email: ajwt3@cam.ac.ukAlexander C. Forse - Yusuf Hamied Department of
Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United
Kingdom;
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9592-9821;
Email: acf50@cam.ac.ukAuthorsAnna T. Bui - Yusuf Hamied Department of
Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United
Kingdom;
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0981-4329Niamh A. Hartley - Yusuf Hamied Department of
Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United
Kingdom;
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1381-9026NotesThe authors declare no competing financial interest.AcknowledgmentsARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferencesThis project was supported by a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to A.C.F. (MR/T043024/1) and a BP Next Generation Fellowship from the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry at Cambridge to A.C.F. We would like to thank EPSRC for a doctoral training award to N.A.H. (ref EP/T517847/1). A.J.W.T. and A.T.B. would also like to thank the Walters-Kundert Next Generation Fellowship Fund. For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising.ReferencesARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToAbstractIntroductionMethodsResults and DiscussionConclusions and OutlookData AvailabilitySupporting InformationAuthor InformationAcknowledgmentsReferences
This article references 48 other publications.
1 Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups
I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change; Core Writing Team, Pachauri, R. K., Meyer, L., Eds.; IPCC: Geneva, Switzerland, 2014. https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/AR5_SYR_FINAL_Front_matters.pdf.Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.2Tollefson, J.; Weiss, K. R.
Nations approve historic global climate accord. Nature 2015,
528,
315– 316,  DOI: 10.1038/528315a [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar2Nations approve historic global climate accordTollefson, Jeff; Weiss, Kenneth R.Nature (London, United Kingdom)
(2015),
528
(7582),
315-316CODEN:
NATUAS;
ISSN:0028-0836.
(Nature Publishing Group)
Agreement forged in Paris aims to hold warming 'well below' 2 °C. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXitVemtrzK&md5=7545c5b61e03105576c77fbf5594e6673Cai, W.; Santoso, A.; Wang, G.; Yeh, S.-W.; An, S.-I.; Cobb, K. M.; Collins, M.; Guilyardi, E.; Jin, F.-F.; Kug, J.-S.
ENSO and greenhouse warming. Nature Climate Change 2015,
5,
849– 859,  DOI: 10.1038/nclimate2743 [Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.4Rochelle, G. T.
Amine scrubbing for CO2 capture. Science 2009,
325,
1652– 1654,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1176731 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar4Amine Scrubbing for CO2 CaptureRochelle, Gary T.Science (Washington, DC, United States)
(2009),
325
(5948),
1652-1654CODEN:
SCIEAS;
ISSN:0036-8075.
(American Association for the Advancement of Science)
A review.
Amine scrubbing was used to sep. carbon dioxide (CO2) from natural gas and hydrogen since 1930.
It is a robust technol. and is ready to be tested and used on a larger scale for CO2 capture from coal-fired power plants.
The min. work requirement to sep. CO2 from coal-fired flue gas and compress CO2 to 150 bar is 0.11 MW-hours per metric ton of CO2.
Process and solvent improvements should reduce the energy consumption to 0.2 MW-hour per ton of CO2.
Other advanced technologies will not provide energy-efficient or timely solns. to CO2 emission from conventional coal-fired power plants. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD1MXhtFGqt77P&md5=f83cd2a0cfac26a1468af606ec03bebc5Forse, A. C.; Milner, P. J.
New chemistry for enhanced carbon capture: beyond ammonium carbamates. Chem. Sci. 2021,
12,
508– 516,  DOI: 10.1039/D0SC06059C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar5New chemistry for enhanced carbon capture: beyond ammonium carbamatesForse, Alexander C.; Milner, Phillip J.Chemical Science
(2021),
12
(2),
508-516CODEN:
CSHCCN;
ISSN:2041-6520.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Carbon capture and sequestration is necessary to tackle one of the biggest problems facing society: global climate change resulting from anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
Despite this pressing need, we still rely on century-old technol.-aq. amine scrubbers-to selectively remove CO2 from emission streams.
Amine scrubbers are effective due to their exquisite chemoselectivity towards CO2 to form ammonium carbamates and (bi)carbonates, but suffer from several unavoidable limitations.
In this perspective, we highlight the need for CO2 capture via new chem. that goes beyond the traditional formation of ammonium carbamates.
In particular, we demonstrate how ionic liq. and metal-org. framework sorbents can give rise to capture products that are not favorable for aq. amines, including carbamic acids, carbamate-carbamic acid adducts, metal bicarbonates, alkyl carbonates, and carbonic acids.
These new CO2 binding modes may offer advantages including higher sorption capacities and lower regeneration energies, though addnl. research is needed to fully explore their utility for practical applications.
Overall, we outline the unique challenges and opportunities involved in engineering new CO2 capture chem. into next-generation technologies. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXisFWrsbfM&md5=8727571a1bf6c9ceeff496294b61533c6Vasudevan, S.; Farooq, S.; Karimi, I. A.; Saeys, M.; Quah, M. C.; Agrawal, R.
Energy penalty estimates for CO2 capture: Comparison between fuel types and capture-combustion modes. Energy 2016,
103,
709– 714,  DOI: 10.1016/j.energy.2016.02.154 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar6Energy penalty estimates for CO2 capture: Comparison between fuel types and capture-combustion modesVasudevan, Suraj; Farooq, Shamsuzzaman; Karimi, Iftekhar A.; Saeys, Mark; Quah, Michael C. G.; Agrawal, RakeshEnergy (Oxford, United Kingdom)
(2016),
103
(),
709-714CODEN:
ENEYDS;
ISSN:0360-5442.
(Elsevier Ltd.)
Carbon capture from power plants holds the key to any significant redn. in CO2 emissions.
This work considers the energy penalty related to CO2 capture from coal, natural gas and fuel oil-based power plants.
We evaluate the min. thermodn. work for CO2 capture, and then est. achievable targets.
All the three modes of capture-combustion: pre-combustion, post-combustion, and oxy combustion, are considered.
The low CO2 concn. in natural gas-based power plants translates into the highest capture energy per ton of CO2.
However, the lowest energy penalty of 10% is obtained with pre-combustion capture in natural gas-based power plants (vs. 17% for coal-based power plants).
The highest energy penalty of about 20% is found for oxy combustion capture from coal-based power plants.
In general, pre-combustion capture seems to provide the lowest energy penalties. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XksFKjt74%253D&md5=08ca0780f1f6c3b9def56bf7fcc9cc057Rheinhardt, J. H.; Singh, P.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Buttry, D. A.
Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide. ACS Energy Letters 2017,
2,
454– 461,  DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.6b00608 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar7Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon DioxideRheinhardt, Joseph H.; Singh, Poonam; Tarakeshwar, Pilarisetty; Buttry, Daniel A.ACS Energy Letters
(2017),
2
(2),
454-461CODEN:
AELCCP;
ISSN:2380-8195.
(American Chemical Society)
A review concerning the use of electrochem. cycles to capture CO2 from complex gas streams (e.g., flue gas) and release it in pure form is given.
These cycles typically rely on electrochem.-generated nucleophiles which attack CO2 at the electrophilic C atom, forming a CO2 adduct; then CO2 is released in pure form by a subsequent electrochem. step.
Advantages and disadvantages inherent in this general approach are discussed. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2sXhtFKlsLg%253D&md5=2f842bde68235c3cbc27a5d9ac3bd6218Renfrew, S. E.; Starr, D. E.; Strasser, P.
Electrochemical Approaches toward CO2 Capture and Concentration. ACS Catal. 2020,
10,
13058– 13074,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c03639 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar8Electrochemical Approaches toward CO2 Capture and ConcentrationRenfrew, Sara E.; Starr, David E.; Strasser, PeterACS Catalysis
(2020),
10
(21),
13058-13074CODEN:
ACCACS;
ISSN:2155-5435.
(American Chemical Society)
A review.
Carbon capture and concn. of low partial pressure CO2 in air and flue gas is a key step in carbon abatement strategies.
Traditional CO2 capture methods employ temp. or pressure swings; however, electrochem. swings, in which an applied potential modulates nucleophilicity, are also possible to mediate the capture and release of CO2.
In contrast to the breadth of electrochem. CO2 redn. research, electrochem. mediated CO2 capture and concn. is an emerging field.
Although some aspects are reminiscent of those in CO2 redn., like local pH gradients and (bi)carbonate equil., ultimately electrochem. CO2 capture and concn. poses its own unique challenges that will benefit from insights from intercalative batteries, redox flow batteries, and biomimetic/-inspired design, among other fields.
After an introduction to carbon capture and current chem. strategies, this Review highlights promising emerging electrochem. methods to enable CO2 capture and concn.; specifically discussed are org. redox, transition metal redox, and pH swings.
It closes with an outlook and discussion of future research challenges for electrochem. mediated capture. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXitFCqtLnF&md5=ec9c10913e242312a0f3d93a9be8b94f9Sullivan, I.; Goryachev, A.; Digdaya, I. A.; Li, X.; Atwater, H. A.; Vermaas, D. A.; Xiang, C.
Coupling electrochemical CO2 conversion with CO2 capture. Nature Catalysis 2021,
4,
952– 958,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-021-00699-7 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar9Coupling electrochemical CO2 conversion with CO2 captureSullivan, Ian; Goryachev, Andrey; Digdaya, Ibadillah A.; Li, Xueqian; Atwater, Harry A.; Vermaas, David A.; Xiang, ChengxiangNature Catalysis
(2021),
4
(11),
952-958CODEN:
NCAACP;
ISSN:2520-1158.
(Nature Portfolio)
A review.
Electrochem. CO2 conversion into fuels or chems. and CO2 capture from point or dil. sources are two important processes to address the gigaton challenges in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Both CO2 capture and electrochem. CO2 conversion are energy intensive, and synergistic coupling between the two processes can improve the energy efficiency of the system and reduce the cost of the reduced products, via eliminating the CO2 transport and storage or eliminating the capture media regeneration and mol. CO2 release.
We consider three different levels to couple electrochem. CO2 redn. with CO2 capture: independent (Type-I), subsequent (Type-II) and fully integrated (Type-III) capture and conversion processes.
We focus on Type-II and Type-III configurations and illustrate potential coupling routes of different capture media, which include amine-based solns. and direct carbamate redn., redox active carriers, aq. carbonate and bicarbonate solns., ionic liqs. CO2 capture and conversion mediated by covalent org. frameworks. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3MXisFagsbbK&md5=9745b821c78aee7fa66c96d5241e5b5d10Sharifian, R.; Wagterveld, R. M.; Digdaya, I. A.; Xiang, C.; Vermaas, D. A.
Electrochemical carbon dioxide capture to close the carbon cycle. Energy Environ. Sci. 2021,
14,
781– 814,  DOI: 10.1039/D0EE03382K [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar10Electrochemical carbon dioxide capture to close the carbon cycleSharifian, R.; Wagterveld, R. M.; Digdaya, I. A.; Xiang, C.; Vermaas, D. A.Energy & Environmental Science
(2021),
14
(2),
781-814CODEN:
EESNBY;
ISSN:1754-5706.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
A review.
Electrochem. CO2 capture technologies are gaining attention due to their flexibility, their ability to address decentralized emissions (e.g., ocean and atm.) and their fit in an electrified industry.
In the present work, recent progress made in electrochem. CO2 capture is reviewed.
The majority of these methods rely on the concept of "pH-swing" and the effect it has on the CO2 hydration/dehydration equil.
Through a pH-swing, CO2 can be captured and recovered by shifting the pH of a working fluid between acidic and basic pH.
Such swing can be applied electrochem. through electrolysis, bipolar membrane electrodialysis, reversible redox reactions and capacitive deionization.
In this review, we summarize main parameters governing these electrochem. pH-swing processes and put the concept in the framework of available worldwide capture technologies.
We analyze the energy efficiency and consumption of such systems, and provide recommendations for further improvements.
Although electrochem. CO2 capture technologies are rather costly compared to the amine based capture, they can be particularly interesting if more affordable renewable electricity and materials (e.g., electrode and membranes) become widely available.
Furthermore, electrochem. methods have the ability to (directly) convert the captured CO2 to value added chems. and fuels, and hence prep. for a fully electrified circular carbon economy. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXis1ansL7P&md5=33c71737ac0eb35d773878f9095e927811DuBois, D. L.; Miedaner, A.; Bell, W.; Smart, J. C.
Electrochemical Concentration of Carbon Dioxide. In
Electrochemical and Electrocatalytic Reactions of Carbon Dioxide; Sullivan, B. P., Ed.; Elsevier B.V.: New York, NY, 1993; pp
94– 117.[Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.12Mizen, M. B.; Wrighton, M. S.
Reductive Addition of CO2 to 9,10-Phenanthrenequinone. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1989,
136,
941,  DOI: 10.1149/1.2096891 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar12Reductive addition of carbon dioxide to 9,10-phenanthrenequinoneMizen, Mark B.; Wrighton, Mark S.Journal of the Electrochemical Society
(1989),
136
(4),
941-6CODEN:
JESOAN;
ISSN:0013-4651.
Two mols. of CO2 add to electrochem. reduced 9,10-phenanthreqnequinone (PAQ) in CH3CN/[n-Bu4N]BF4 to give the bis(carbonate), [PAQ.2CO2]2-.
In the absence of CO2, PAQ undergoes two reversible, one-electron redns. at -0.65 and -1.44 V vs. SCE in CH3CN.
Addn. of CO2 occurs at ∼ -0.7V vs. SCE with a rate const. of about 102 M-1s-1.
A further one-electron redn. takes place at the same potential and is followed by addn. of a second mol. of CO2.
The final CO2 addn. step is effectively chem. irreversible.
Oxidn. of the CO2 adduct results in the quant. regeneration of PAQ and CO2.
Redn. of PAQ with cobaltocene in the presence of CO2 also gives [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
IR, NMR, and UV-vis spectroscopy were used to identify and characterize [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
[PAQ . 2CO2]2- was also prepd. by addn. of CO2 to independently prepd. Na+2PAQ2-.
Loss of CO2 occurs upon addn. of either CH3I or (CH3O)2SO2 to a soln. of [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
The expected methylation product, PAQ.2CO2CH3, was synthesized by electrochem. redn. of PAQ in the presence of ClCO2CH3. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL1MXit1WgsLo%253D&md5=51d7376700476eab3442fc98e7b3816913Scovazzo, P.; Poshusta, J.; DuBois, D.; Koval, C.; Noble, R.
Electrochemical Separation and Concentration of < 1% Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2003,
150,
D91,  DOI: 10.1149/1.1566962 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar13Electrochemical Separation and Concentration of <1% Carbon Dioxide from NitrogenScovazzo, Paul; Poshusta, Joe; DuBois, Dan; Koval, Carl; Noble, RichardJournal of the Electrochemical Society
(2003),
150
(5),
D91-D98CODEN:
JESOAN;
ISSN:0013-4651.
(Electrochemical Society)
Low energy sepns. for <1% CO2 gases would benefit gas treatment and CO2 sequestration.
Theor., electrochem. pumping can sep. and conc. CO2 from the atm. or other gases with <1% CO2 at significantly lower energy cost than current systems.
Principles of electrochem. pumping for CO2 sepns. are discussed and results for both org. solvent and ionic liq. working fluid systems are presented.
Due to the large quantities of gases requiring processing during the sepn./concn. of <1% CO2 gases, this work looked at solvents with negligible vapor pressures, specifically propylene carbonate and the room-temp. ionic liq. 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate.
Other important parameters, as illustrated by the data and models presented, are low CO2 soly. in the solvent, high CO2 carrier soly., CO2 binding consts., and the CO2 carrier's electrochem.
Reported is the electrochem. pumping of CO2 from 0.5% (in nitrogen) to 100%, a 200-fold increase in partial pressure, using the CO2 carrier 2,6-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone in a propylene carbonate soln.
The ratio of CO2 moles pumped per electron mole was 0.43.
The models detd. the optimal CO2 soly. in the solvent and the required redox swing in the CO2 binding consts. of the carrier. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3sXivFaku7g%253D&md5=e47a40137068128e8b0caa250afc108014Apaydin, D. H.; Głowacki, E. D.; Portenkirchner, E.; Sariciftci, N. S.
Direct Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using an Industrial Organic Pigment: Quinacridone. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014,
53,
6819– 6822,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201403618 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar14Direct Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using an Industrial Organic Pigment: QuinacridoneApaydin, Dogukan Hazar; Glowacki, Eric Daniel; Portenkirchner, Engelbert; Sariciftci, Niyazi SerdarAngewandte Chemie, International Edition
(2014),
53
(26),
6819-6822CODEN:
ACIEF5;
ISSN:1433-7851.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
Limiting anthropogenic CO2 emissions is a major issue faced by scientists.
This work reports an efficient way for the controlled capture/release of CO2 using a nature-inspired inexpensive, abundant, non-toxic, industrial pigment: quinacridone.
An electrochem. reduced electrode with a quinacridone thin film (∼100 nm thick) on an indium tin oxide support forms a quinacridone carbonate salt.
Captured CO2 is released by electrochem. oxidn.
The amt. of CO2 captured was quantified by Fourier transform IR spectroscopy.
The uptake value for the electrochem. release process was 4.61 mmol/g.
This value is among the highest reported uptake efficiencies for electrochem. CO2 capture.
In comparison, a state-of-the-art aq. amine industrial capture process has an ∼8 mmol/g uptake efficiency. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXosV2ksr4%253D&md5=fd825766c63f6340cd5038cefe163f6015Gurkan, B.; Simeon, F.; Hatton, T. A.
Quinone Reduction in Ionic Liquids for Electrochemical CO2 Separation. ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2015,
3,
1394– 1405,  DOI: 10.1021/acssuschemeng.5b00116 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar15Quinone Reduction in Ionic Liquids for Electrochemical CO2 SeparationGurkan, Burcu; Simeon, Fritz; Hatton, T. AlanACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering
(2015),
3
(7),
1394-1405CODEN:
ASCECG;
ISSN:2168-0485.
(American Chemical Society)
The authors report the redox activity of quinone materials, in the presence of ionic liqs., with the ability to bind reversibly to CO2.
The redn. potential at which 1,4-naphthoquinone transforms to the quinone dianion depends on the strength of the H-bonding characteristics of the ionic liq. solvent; under CO2, this transformation occurs at much lower potentials than in a CO2-inert environment.
In the absence of CO2, two consecutive redn. steps are required to form 1st the radical anion and then the dianion, but with the quinones considered here, a single two-electron wave redn. with simultaneous binding of CO2 occurs.
In particular, the 1,4-naphthoquinone and 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tricyanomethanide, [emim][tcm], system reported here shows a higher quinone soly. (0.6 and 1.9 mol L-1 at 22 and 60°, resp.) compared to other ionic liqs. and most common solvents.
The high polarity detd. through the Kamlet-Taft parameters for [emim][tcm] explains the measured soly. of quinone.
The achieved high quinone soly. enables effective CO2 sepn. from the dil. gas mixt. that is contact with the cathode by overcoming back-diffusive transport of CO2 from the anodic side. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXotlCisbc%253D&md5=6667ba2e006485b82210d2b7ed38e84016Liu, Y.; Ye, H.-Z.; Diederichsen, K. M.; Van Voorhis, T.; Hatton, T. A.
Electrochemically mediated carbon dioxide separation with quinone chemistry in salt-concentrated aqueous media. Nat. Commun. 2020,
11,
2278,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16150-7 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar16Electrochemically mediated carbon dioxide separation with quinone chemistry in salt-concentrated aqueous mediaLiu, Yayuan; Ye, Hong-Zhou; Diederichsen, Kyle M.; Van Voorhis, Troy; Hatton, T. AlanNature Communications
(2020),
11
(1),
2278CODEN:
NCAOBW;
ISSN:2041-1723.
(Nature Research)
Carbon capture is essential for mitigating carbon dioxide emissions.
Compared to conventional chem. scrubbing, electrochem. mediated carbon capture utilizing redox-active sorbents such as quinones is emerging as a more versatile and economical alternative.
However, the practicality of such systems is hindered by the requirement of toxic, flammable org. electrolytes or often costly ionic liqs.
Herein, we demonstrate that rationally designed aq. electrolytes with high salt concn. can effectively resolve the incompatibility between aq. environments and quinone electrochem. for carbon capture, eliminating the safety, toxicity, and at least partially the cost concerns in previous studies.
Salt-concd. aq. media also offer distinct advantages including extended electrochem. window, high carbon dioxide activity, significantly reduced evaporative loss and material dissoln., and importantly, greatly suppressed competing reactions including under simulated flue gas.
Correspondingly, we achieve continuous carbon capture-release operations with outstanding capacity, stability, efficiency and electrokinetics, advancing electrochem. carbon sepn. further towards practical applications. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXptVert7o%253D&md5=26e8a5c278cb6d048bb8091aec3c3fd817Voskian, S.; Hatton, T. A.
Faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption for CO2 capture. Energy Environ. Sci. 2019,
12,
3530– 3547,  DOI: 10.1039/C9EE02412C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar17Faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption for CO2 captureVoskian, Sahag; Hatton, T. AlanEnergy & Environmental Science
(2019),
12
(12),
3530-3547CODEN:
EESNBY;
ISSN:1754-5706.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Carbon capture is one of the foremost methods for curtailing greenhouse gas emissions.
Incumbent technologies are inherently inefficient due to thermal energy losses, large footprint, or degrdn. of sorbent material.
We report a solid-state faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption system comprising an electrochem. cell that exploits the reductive addn. of CO2 to quinones for carbon capture.
The reported device is compact and flexible, obviates the need for ancillary equipment, and eliminates the parasitic energy losses by using electrochem. activated redox carriers.
An electrochem. cell with a polyanthraquinone-carbon nanotube composite neg. electrode captures CO2 upon charging via the carboxylation of reduced quinones, and releases CO2 upon discharge.
The cell architecture maximizes the surface area exposed to gas, allowing for ease of stacking of the cells in a parallel passage contactor bed.
We demonstrate the capture of CO2 both in a sealed chamber and in an adsorption bed from inlet streams of CO2 concns. as low as 0.6% (6000 ppm) and up to 10%, at a const. CO2 capacity with a faradaic efficiency of >90%, and a work of 40-90 kJ per mol of CO2 captured, with great durability of electrochem. cells showing <30% loss of capacity after 7000 cycles. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC1MXhvVOksL7J&md5=9921e8da53895f47f17567183b2a03a018Li, Q.; Batchelor-McAuley, C.; Lawrence, N. S.; Hartshorne, R. S.; Compton, R. G.
Semiquinone Intermediates in the Two-Electron Reduction of Quinones in Aqueous Media and their Exceptionally High Reactivity towards Oxygen Reduction. ChemPhysChem 2011,
12,
1255– 1257,  DOI: 10.1002/cphc.201100174 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar18Semiquinone Intermediates in the Two-Electron Reduction of Quinones in Aqueous Media and their Exceptionally High Reactivity towards Oxygen ReductionLi, Qian; Batchelor-McAuley, Christopher; Lawrence, Nathan S.; Hartshorne, Robert S.; Compton, Richard G.ChemPhysChem
(2011),
12
(7),
1255-1257CODEN:
CPCHFT;
ISSN:1439-4235.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
We report the catalytic anthraquinone-mediated redn. of oxygen at a boron-doped diamond electrode.
Scheme of squares modeling confirms the existence of and reveals the role of the semiquinone intermediates, which are shown to have an exceptional reactivity towards oxygen (as compared to the di-reduced anthraquinone). >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC3MXls1eksLk%253D&md5=802d6ba770a100d59ca6003e21ac004419Yang, J., Barlow, J.
Oxygen Stable Electrochemical CO2 Capture and Concentration through Alcohol Additives.
ChemRxiv , December 8, 2021, ver. 1. DOI: 10.26434/chemrxiv-2021-2lg87 .[Crossref], [PubMed], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.20Nagaoka, T.; Nishii, N.; Fujii, K.; Ogura, K.
Mechanisms of reductive addition of CO2 to quinones in acetonitrile. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1992,
322,
383– 389,  DOI: 10.1016/0022-0728(92)80090-Q [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar20Mechanism of reductive addition of carbon dioxide to quinones in acetonitrileNagaoka, Tsutomu; Nishii, Nobuyuki; Fujii, Koji; Ogura, KotaroJournal of Electroanalytical Chemistry and Interfacial Electrochemistry
(1992),
322
(1-2),
383-9CODEN:
JEIEBC;
ISSN:0022-0728.
The reductive coupling of CO2 to quinone anions in MeCN was studied.
Cyclic voltammograms are given for 1,2-naphthoquinone on a glassy C in the presence and absence of CO2 in MeCN contg. Et4NClO4.
Assocn. consts. and stoichiometric consts. were evaluated from shifts in the polarog. half-wave potential. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK38Xit1els7w%253D&md5=19201b62352198145f09eafdd546aa4a21Simeon, F.; Stern, M. C.; Diederichsen, K. M.; Liu, Y.; Herzog, H. J.; Hatton, T. A.
Electrochemical and Molecular Assessment of Quinones as CO2-Binding Redox Molecules for Carbon Capture. J. Phys. Chem. C 2022,
126,
1389– 1399,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c09415 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar21Electrochemical and Molecular Assessment of Quinones as CO2-Binding Redox Molecules for Carbon CaptureSimeon, Fritz; Stern, Michael C.; Diederichsen, Kyle M.; Liu, Yayuan; Herzog, Howard J.; Hatton, T. AlanJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2022),
126
(3),
1389-1399CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
The complexation and decomplexation of CO2 with a series of quinones of different basicity during electrochem. cycling in DMF solns. were studied systematically by cyclic voltammetry.
In the absence of CO2, all quinones exhibited two well-sepd. redn. waves.
For weakly complexing quinones, a pos. shift in the second redn. wave was obsd. in the presence of CO2, corresponding to the dianion quinone-CO2 complex formation; there was no formation of complexes between the semiquinones and CO2.
For strongly complexing quinones, the second redn. wave merged with the first, indicating that the two electrons transferred simultaneously at this potential.
Both weakly and strongly complexing quinones underwent oxidn. and CO2 dissocn. with the order depending on the sweep rate in the cyclic voltammetric expts., termed either electrochem.-chem. or chem.-electrochem.
This study provides an interpretation of the interactions that lead to the formation of quinone-CO2 complexes required for the potential development of an energy efficient electrochem. sepn. process and discusses important considerations for practical implementation of CO2 capture in the presence of oxygen with lower vapor pressure solvents. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB38XhtFSktr8%253D&md5=95e196c89bda35e95f977f4b18d1feac22Bachman, J. E.; Curtiss, L. A.; Assary, R. S.
Investigation of the Redox Chemistry of Anthraquinone Derivatives Using Density Functional Theory. J. Phys. Chem. A 2014,
118,
8852– 8860,  DOI: 10.1021/jp5060777 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar22Investigation of the Redox Chemistry of Anthraquinone Derivatives Using Density Functional TheoryBachman, Jonathan E.; Curtiss, Larry A.; Assary, Rajeev S.Journal of Physical Chemistry A
(2014),
118
(38),
8852-8860CODEN:
JPCAFH;
ISSN:1089-5639.
(American Chemical Society)
Application of d. functional calcns. to compute electrochem. properties such as redox windows, effect of substitution by electron donating and electron withdrawing groups on redox windows, and solvation free energies for ∼50 anthraquinone (AQ) derivs. are presented because of their potential as anolytes in all-org. redox flow batteries.
Computations suggest that lithium ions can increase (by ∼0.4 V) the redn. potential of anthraquinone due to the lithium ion pairing by forming a Lewis base-Lewis acid complex.
To design new redox active species, the substitution by electron donating groups is essential to improve the redn. window of AQ with adequate oxidative stability.
For instance, a complete methylation of AQ can improve its redn. window by ∼0.4 V.
The quantum chem. studies of the ∼50 AQ derivs. are used to derive a relationship that connects the computed LUMO energy and the redn. potential that can be applied as a descriptor for screening thousands of AQ derivs.
Our computations also suggest that incorporating oxy-Me dioxolane substituents in the AQ framework can increase its interaction with nonaq. solvent and improve its soly.
Thermochem. calcns. for likely bond breaking decompn. reactions of unsubstituted AQ anions suggest that the dianions are relatively stable in the soln.
These studies provide an ideal platform to perform further combined exptl. and theor. studies to understand the electrochem. reversibility and soly. of new quinone mols. as energy storage materials. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXhsVeksbjF&md5=df1850a724d890fe869dec2ad234942623Wang, Z.; Li, A.; Gou, L.; Ren, J.; Zhai, G.
Computational electrochemistry study of derivatives of anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone analogues: the substitution effect. RSC Adv. 2016,
6,
89827– 89835,  DOI: 10.1039/C6RA19128B [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar23Computational electrochemistry study of derivatives of anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone analogues: the substitution effectWang, Zhen; Li, Anyang; Gou, Lei; Ren, Jingzheng; Zhai, GaohongRSC Advances
(2016),
6
(92),
89827-89835CODEN:
RSCACL;
ISSN:2046-2069.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
The substituent effect on fused heteroarom. anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone are investigated by d. functional calcns. to det. some guidelines for designing potential cathode materials for rechargeable Li-ion batteries.
The calcd. redox potentials of the quinone derivs. change monotonically with increasing no. of substitutions.
Full substitution with electron-withdrawing groups brings the highest redox potential; however, mono-substitution results in the largest mass energy d.
Carbonyl groups are the most favorable active Li-binding sites; moreover, intramol. lithium bonds can be formed between Li atoms and electroneg. atoms from the substituent groups.
The lithium bonds increase the redox potential by improving the thermodn. stabilization of the lithiation derivs.
Furthermore, the calcn. of nucleus-independent chem. shift indicates that the derivs. with Li-bound carbonyl groups are more stable than the bare derivs. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XhslOqtrbJ&md5=44e59765be7c9c9b3a5a6de4ff0151b624Schwan, S.; Schröder, D.; Wegner, H. A.; Janek, J.; Mollenhauer, D.
Substituent Pattern Effects on the Redox Potentials of Quinone-Based Active Materials for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. ChemSusChem 2020,
13,
5480– 5488,  DOI: 10.1002/cssc.202000454 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar24Substituent Pattern Effects on the Redox Potentials of Quinone-Based Active Materials for Aqueous Redox Flow BatteriesSchwan, S.; Schroeder, D.; Wegner, H. A.; Janek, J.; Mollenhauer, D.ChemSusChem
(2020),
13
(20),
5480-5488CODEN:
CHEMIZ;
ISSN:1864-5631.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
Quinone-based, aq. redox flow batteries are a promising technol. for large-scale, low-cost energy storage.
To understand the influence of substituent and substituent pattern effects of quinone-based derivs. on the redox potential, a screening study was performed that included benzoquinone, naphtaquinone, and anthraquinone derivs.
The order of substituent influence is -OH>-Me/-OMe for decreasing the redox potential and -F<-SO3-<-CN, -NO2 for increasing the redox potential, which is in agreement with general expectations.
We found that the consideration of resonance and inductive effects design strategies of redox-active materials can be extended by the ability of intramol. hydrogen bond formation, steric hindrance, and energetic differences of conformers for oxidized and reduced species.
Due to the complexity and overlap of these effects, theor. screening studies can provide guidance for the design of new mol. materials.
In addn. to the redox potential, other parameters such as stability, soly., and kinetic rate const. or synthetic accessibility are crucial to consider. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXhvV2msLrK&md5=0932af2d311f61591799b0c155c61fa425Er, S.; Suh, C.; Marshak, M. P.; Aspuru-Guzik, A.
Computational design of molecules for an all-quinone redox flow battery. Chem. Sci. 2015,
6,
885– 893,  DOI: 10.1039/C4SC03030C [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar25Computational design of molecules for an all-quinone redox flow batteryEr, Suleyman; Suh, Changwon; Marshak, Michael P.; Aspuru-Guzik, AlanChemical Science
(2015),
6
(2),
885-893CODEN:
CSHCCN;
ISSN:2041-6520.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Inspired by the electron transfer properties of quinones in biol. systems, we recently showed that quinones are also very promising electroactive materials for stationary energy storage applications.
Due to the practically infinite chem. space of org. mols., the discovery of addnl. quinones or other redox-active org. mols. for energy storage applications is an open field of inquiry.
Here, we introduce a high-throughput computational screening approach that we applied to an accelerated study of a total of 1710 quinone (Q) and hydroquinone (QH2) (i.e., two-electron two-proton) redox couples.
We identified the promising candidates for both the neg. and pos. sides of org.-based aq. flow batteries, thus enabling an all-quinone battery.
To further aid the development of addnl. interesting electroactive small mols. we also provide emerging quant. structure-property relationships. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXitVSitrzF&md5=47e9269451f3d0a6dabac2d994d08ef126Méndez-Hernández, D. D.; Gillmore, J. G.; Montano, L. A.; Gust, D.; Moore, T. A.; Moore, A. L.; Mujica, V.
Building and testing correlations for the estimation of one-electron reduction potentials of a diverse set of organic molecules. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2015,
28,
320– 328,  DOI: 10.1002/poc.3413 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar26Building and testing correlations for the estimation of one-electron reduction potentials of a diverse set of organic moleculesMendez-Hernandez, Dalvin D.; Gillmore, Jason G.; Montano, Luis A.; Gust, Devens; Moore, Thomas A.; Moore, Ana L.; Mujica, VladimiroJournal of Physical Organic Chemistry
(2015),
28
(5),
320-328CODEN:
JPOCEE;
ISSN:0894-3230.
(John Wiley & Sons Ltd.)
The authors describe and evaluate a method for computationally predicting redn. potentials of a diverse group of org. mols. by linearly correlating calcd. LUMO energies with ground state redn. potentials measured in acetonitrile.
The approach provides a unique combination of extreme computational simplicity and excellent accuracy across a diverse range of org. structures and a wide window of redn. potentials.
A disparate set of mols. (74 compds. belonging to six distinct structural families, comprised of mols. contg. C, H, N, O, F, Cl, and Br, with functional groups including esters, ketones, halides, nitriles, quinones, alkenes, arenes, heteroarenes, and pyridinium and higher benzologs, all contg. conjugated pi systems, spanning a 3.5-V range of redn. potentials) was used to build the correlations.
This methodol. is computationally inexpensive compared with other approaches and to permit the useful prediction of redn. potentials of addnl. mols. of diverse structural types not included in the families used to det. the correlation parameters.
The effects of varying the basis set used in the B3LYP electronic structure calcns. and including solvent (compared with calcns. in gas phase) were also examd.
The inclusion of a continuum solvent model in the calcns. was required for accurate results, particularly when including cationic species in the correlations (although when only neutral mols. were examd., reasonable results could even be obtained in vacuo).
Several of the best correlations were used to predict the redn. potentials of seven much larger and structurally diverse chromophores that were not included in the correlation data set.
Strong correlations (r2 values > 0.99) with very good predictive abilities (root mean square deviation < 60 mV) were found.
This extremely simple and computationally efficient entirely closed-shell methodol. is proven robust and useful for the design of new mols. capable of participating in redox processes, including electron transfer reactions.
Copyright © 2015 John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXkvVSmt7c%253D&md5=de387f722e547d82f211805192b94f6327Zhang, Q.; Khetan, A.; Er, S.
Comparison of computational chemistry methods for the discovery of quinone-based electroactive compounds for energy storage. Sci. Rep 2020,
10,
22149,  DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-79153-w [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar27Comparison of computational chemistry methods for the discovery of quinone-based electroactive compounds for energy storageZhang, Qi; Khetan, Abhishek; Er, SueleymanScientific Reports
(2020),
10
(1),
22149CODEN:
SRCEC3;
ISSN:2045-2322.
(Nature Research)
Abstr.: High-throughput computational screening (HTCS) is a powerful approach for the rational and time-efficient design of electroactive compds.
The effectiveness of HTCS is dependent on accuracy and speed at which the performance descriptors can be estd. for possibly millions of candidate compds.
Here, a systematic evaluation of computational methods, including force field (FF), semi-empirical quantum mechanics (SEQM), d. functional based tight binding (DFTB), and d. functional theory (DFT), is performed on the basis of their accuracy in predicting the redox potentials of redox-active org. compds.
Geometry optimizations at low-level theories followed by single point energy (SPE) DFT calcns. that include an implicit solvation model are found to offer equipollent accuracy as the high-level DFT methods, albeit at significantly lower computational costs.
Effects of implicit solvation on mol. geometries and SPEs, and their overall effects on the prediction accuracy of redox potentials are analyzed in view of computational cost vs. prediction accuracy, which outlines the best choice of methods corresponding to a desired level of accuracy.
The modular computational approach is applicable for accelerating the virtual studies on functional quinones and the resp. discovery of candidate compds. for energy storage. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXislSht7zE&md5=6b562f6932db8d849c714e0f68f58dff28Epifanovsky, E.
Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 package. J. Chem. Phys. 2021,
155,
084801,  DOI: 10.1063/5.0055522 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar28Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 packageEpifanovsky, Evgeny; Gilbert, Andrew T. B.; Feng, Xintian; Lee, Joonho; Mao, Yuezhi; Mardirossian, Narbe; Pokhilko, Pavel; White, Alec F.; Coons, Marc P.; Dempwolff, Adrian L.; Gan, Zhengting; Hait, Diptarka; Horn, Paul R.; Jacobson, Leif D.; Kaliman, Ilya; Kussmann, Jorg; Lange, Adrian W.; Lao, Ka Un; Levine, Daniel S.; Liu, Jie; McKenzie, Simon C.; Morrison, Adrian F.; Nanda, Kaushik D.; Plasser, Felix; Rehn, Dirk R.; Vidal, Marta L.; You, Zhi-Qiang; Zhu, Ying; Alam, Bushra; Albrecht, Benjamin J.; Aldossary, Abdulrahman; Alguire, Ethan; Andersen, Josefine H.; Athavale, Vishikh; Barton, Dennis; Begam, Khadiza; Behn, Andrew; Bellonzi, Nicole; Bernard, Yves A.; Berquist, Eric J.; Burton, Hugh G. A.; Carreras, Abel; Carter-Fenk, Kevin; Chakraborty, Romit; Chien, Alan D.; Closser, Kristina D.; Cofer-Shabica, Vale; Dasgupta, Saswata; de Wergifosse, Marc; Deng, Jia; Diedenhofen, Michael; Do, Hainam; Ehlert, Sebastian; Fang, Po-Tung; Fatehi, Shervin; Feng, Qingguo; Friedhoff, Triet; Gayvert, James; Ge, Qinghui; Gidofalvi, Gergely; Goldey, Matthew; Gomes, Joe; Gonzalez-Espinoza, Cristina E.; Gulania, Sahil; Gunina, Anastasia O.; Hanson-Heine, Magnus W. D.; Harbach, Phillip H. P.; Hauser, Andreas; Herbst, Michael F.; Hernandez Vera, Mario; Hodecker, Manuel; Holden, Zachary C.; Houck, Shannon; Huang, Xunkun; Hui, Kerwin; Huynh, Bang C.; Ivanov, Maxim; Jasz, Adam; Ji, Hyunjun; Jiang, Hanjie; Kaduk, Benjamin; Kahler, Sven; Khistyaev, Kirill; Kim, Jaehoon; Kis, Gergely; Klunzinger, Phil; Koczor-Benda, Zsuzsanna; Koh, Joong Hoon; Kosenkov, Dimitri; Koulias, Laura; Kowalczyk, Tim; Krauter, Caroline M.; Kue, Karl; Kunitsa, Alexander; Kus, Thomas; Ladjanszki, Istvan; Landau, Arie; Lawler, Keith V.; Lefrancois, Daniel; Lehtola, Susi; Li, Run R.; Li, Yi-Pei; Liang, Jiashu; Liebenthal, Marcus; Lin, Hung-Hsuan; Lin, You-Sheng; Liu, Fenglai; Liu, Kuan-Yu; Loipersberger, Matthias; Luenser, Arne; Manjanath, Aaditya; Manohar, Prashant; Mansoor, Erum; Manzer, Sam F.; Mao, Shan-Ping; Marenich, Aleksandr V.; Markovich, Thomas; Mason, Stephen; Maurer, Simon A.; McLaughlin, Peter F.; Menger, Maximilian F. S. J.; Mewes, Jan-Michael; Mewes, Stefanie A.; Morgante, Pierpaolo; Mullinax, J. Wayne; Oosterbaan, Katherine J.; Paran, Garrette; Paul, Alexander C.; Paul, Suranjan K.; Pavosevic, Fabijan; Pei, Zheng; Prager, Stefan; Proynov, Emil I.; Rak, Adam; Ramos-Cordoba, Eloy; Rana, Bhaskar; Rask, Alan E.; Rettig, Adam; Richard, Ryan M.; Rob, Fazle; Rossomme, Elliot; Scheele, Tarek; Scheurer, Maximilian; Schneider, Matthias; Sergueev, Nickolai; Sharada, Shaama M.; Skomorowski, Wojciech; Small, David W.; Stein, Christopher J.; Su, Yu-Chuan; Sundstrom, Eric J.; Tao, Zhen; Thirman, Jonathan; Tornai, Gabor J.; Tsuchimochi, Takashi; Tubman, Norm M.; Veccham, Srimukh Prasad; Vydrov, Oleg; Wenzel, Jan; Witte, Jon; Yamada, Atsushi; Yao, Kun; Yeganeh, Sina; Yost, Shane R.; Zech, Alexander; Zhang, Igor Ying; Zhang, Xing; Zhang, Yu; Zuev, Dmitry; Aspuru-Guzik, Alan; Bell, Alexis T.; Besley, Nicholas A.; Bravaya, Ksenia B.; Brooks, Bernard R.; Casanova, David; Chai, Jeng-Da; Coriani, Sonia; Cramer, Christopher J.; Cserey, Gyorgy; DePrince, A. Eugene; DiStasio, Robert A.; Dreuw, Andreas; Dunietz, Barry D.; Furlani, Thomas R.; Goddard, William A.; Hammes-Schiffer, Sharon; Head-Gordon, Teresa; Hehre, Warren J.; Hsu, Chao-Ping; Jagau, Thomas-C.; Jung, Yousung; Klamt, Andreas; Kong, Jing; Lambrecht, Daniel S.; Liang, WanZhen; Mayhall, Nicholas J.; McCurdy, C. William; Neaton, Jeffrey B.; Ochsenfeld, Christian; Parkhill, John A.; Peverati, Roberto; Rassolov, Vitaly A.; Shao, Yihan; Slipchenko, Lyudmila V.; Stauch, Tim; Steele, Ryan P.; Subotnik, Joseph E.; Thom, Alex J. W.; Tkatchenko, Alexandre; Truhlar, Donald G.; Van Voorhis, Troy; Wesolowski, Tomasz A.; Whaley, K. Birgitta; Woodcock, H. Lee; Zimmerman, Paul M.; Faraji, Shirin; Gill, Peter M. W.; Head-Gordon, Martin; Herbert, John M.; Krylov, Anna I.Journal of Chemical Physics
(2021),
155
(8),
084801CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
(American Institute of Physics)
A review.
This article summarizes tech. advances contained in the fifth major release of the Q-Chem quantum chem. program package, covering developments since 2015.
A comprehensive library of exchange-correlation functionals, along with a suite of correlated many-body methods, continues to be a hallmark of the Q-Chem software.
The many-body methods include novel variants of both coupled-cluster and configuration-interaction approaches along with methods based on the algebraic diagrammatic construction and variational reduced d.-matrix methods.
Methods highlighted in Q-Chem 5 include a suite of tools for modeling core-level spectroscopy, methods for describing metastable resonances, methods for computing vibronic spectra, the nuclear-electronic orbital method, and several different energy decompn. anal. techniques.
High-performance capabilities including multithreaded parallelism and support for calcns. on graphics processing units are described.
Q-Chem boasts a community of well over 100 active academic developers, and the continuing evolution of the software is supported by an "open teamware" model and an increasingly modular design.
(c) 2021 American Institute of Physics. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3MXhvVymsb3P&md5=34fdc0f501633082f75521c06be38ab229Becke, A. D.
Density functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchange. J. Chem. Phys. 1993,
98,
5648– 5652,  DOI: 10.1063/1.464913 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar29Density-functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchangeBecke, Axel D.Journal of Chemical Physics
(1993),
98
(7),
5648-52CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
Despite the remarkable thermochem. accuracy of Kohn-Sham d.-functional theories with gradient corrections for exchange-correlation, the author believes that further improvements are unlikely unless exact-exchange information is considered.
Arguments to support this view are presented, and a semiempirical exchange-correlation functional (contg. local-spin-d., gradient, and exact-exchange terms) is tested for 56 atomization energies, 42 ionization potentials, 8 proton affinities, and 10 total at. energies of first- and second-row systems.
This functional performs better than previous functionals with gradient corrections only, and fits expt. atomization energies with an impressively small av. abs. deviation of 2.4 kcal/mol. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK3sXisVWgtrw%253D&md5=291bbfc119095338bb1624f0c21c7ca830Lee, C.; Yang, W.; Parr, R. G.
Development of the Colle-Salvetti correlation-energy formula into a functional of the electron density. Phys. Rev. B 1988,
37,
785– 789,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.37.785 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar30Development of the Colle-Salvetti correlation-energy formula into a functional of the electron densityLee, Chengteh; Yang, Weitao; Parr, Robert G.Physical Review B:
Condensed Matter and Materials Physics
(1988),
37
(2),
785-9CODEN:
PRBMDO;
ISSN:0163-1829.
A correlation-energy formula due to R. Colle and D. Salvetti (1975), in which the correlation energy d. is expressed in terms of the electron d. and a Laplacian of the 2nd-order Hartree-Fock d. matrix, is restated as a formula involving the d. and local kinetic-energy d.
On insertion of gradient expansions for the local kinetic-energy d., d.-functional formulas for the correlation energy and correlation potential are then obtained.
Through numerical calcns. on a no. of atoms, pos. ions, and mols., of both open- and closed-shell type, it is demonstrated that these formulas, like the original Colle-Salvetti formulas, give correlation energies within a few percent. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL1cXktFWrtbw%253D&md5=ee7b59267a2ff72e15171a481819ccf831Clark, T.; Chandrasekhar, J.; Spitznagel, G. W.; Schleyer, P. V. R.
Efficient diffuse function-augmented basis sets for anion calculations. III. The 3-21+G basis set for first-row elements, Li-F. J. Comput. Chem. 1983,
4,
294– 301,  DOI: 10.1002/jcc.540040303 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar31Efficient diffuse function-augmented basis sets for anion calculations.
III.
The 3-21 + G basis set for first-row elements, lithium to fluorineClark, Timothy; Chandrasekhar, Jayaraman; Spitznagel, Guenther W.; Schleyer, Paul v. R.Journal of Computational Chemistry
(1983),
4
(3),
294-301CODEN:
JCCHDD;
ISSN:0192-8651.
The relatively small diffuse function-augmented basis set, 3-21+G, describes anion geometries and proton affinities adequately.
The diffuse sp orbital exponents are recommended for general use to augment larger basis sets. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3sXlt1ymsb8%253D&md5=2c6dc9df839e5a23820c29db41ce68dc32Krishnan, R.; Binkley, J. S.; Seeger, R.; Pople, J. A.
Self-consistent molecular orbital methods. XX. A basis set for correlated wave functions. J. Chem. Phys. 1980,
72,
650– 654,  DOI: 10.1063/1.438955 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar32Self-consistent molecular orbital methods.
XX.
A basis set for correlated wave functionsKrishnan, R.; Binkley, J. S.; Seeger, R.; Pople, J. A.Journal of Chemical Physics
(1980),
72
(1),
650-4CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
A contracted Gaussian basis set (6-311G**) is developed by optimizing exponents and coeffs. at the Moller-Plesset (MP) second-order level for the ground states of first-row atoms.
This has a triple split in the valence s and p shells together with a single set of uncontracted polarization functions on each atom.
The basis is tested by computing structures and energies for some simple mols. at various levels of MP theory and comparing with expt. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3cXpvFyitA%253D%253D&md5=eb331bad0222adcbe7cad5152727372533Marenich, A. V.; Cramer, C. J.; Truhlar, D. G.
Universal Solvation Model Based on Solute Electron Density and on a Continuum Model of the Solvent Defined by the Bulk Dielectric Constant and Atomic Surface Tensions. J. Phys. Chem. B 2009,
113,
6378– 6396,  DOI: 10.1021/jp810292n [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar33Universal Solvation Model Based on Solute Electron Density and on a Continuum Model of the Solvent Defined by the Bulk Dielectric Constant and Atomic Surface TensionsMarenich, Aleksandr V.; Cramer, Christopher J.; Truhlar, Donald G.Journal of Physical Chemistry B
(2009),
113
(18),
6378-6396CODEN:
JPCBFK;
ISSN:1520-6106.
(American Chemical Society)
We present a new continuum solvation model based on the quantum mech. charge d. of a solute mol. interacting with a continuum description of the solvent.
The model is called SMD, where the "D" stands for "d." to denote that the full solute electron d. is used without defining partial at. charges.
"Continuum" denotes that the solvent is not represented explicitly but rather as a dielec. medium with surface tension at the solute-solvent boundary.
SMD is a universal solvation model, where "universal" denotes its applicability to any charged or uncharged solute in any solvent or liq. medium for which a few key descriptors are known (in particular, dielec. const., refractive index, bulk surface tension, and acidity and basicity parameters).
The model separates the observable solvation free energy into two main components.
The first component is the bulk electrostatic contribution arising from a self-consistent reaction field treatment that involves the soln. of the nonhomogeneous Poisson equation for electrostatics in terms of the integral-equation-formalism polarizable continuum model (IEF-PCM).
The cavities for the bulk electrostatic calcn. are defined by superpositions of nuclear-centered spheres.
The second component is called the cavity-dispersion-solvent-structure term and is the contribution arising from short-range interactions between the solute and solvent mols. in the first solvation shell.
This contribution is a sum of terms that are proportional (with geometry-dependent proportionality consts. called at. surface tensions) to the solvent-accessible surface areas of the individual atoms of the solute.
The SMD model has been parametrized with a training set of 2821 solvation data including 112 aq. ionic solvation free energies, 220 solvation free energies for 166 ions in acetonitrile, methanol, and DMSO, 2346 solvation free energies for 318 neutral solutes in 91 solvents (90 nonaq. org. solvents and water), and 143 transfer free energies for 93 neutral solutes between water and 15 org. solvents.
The elements present in the solutes are H, C, N, O, F, Si, P, S, Cl, and Br.
The SMD model employs a single set of parameters (intrinsic at. Coulomb radii and at. surface tension coeffs.) optimized over six electronic structure methods: M05-2X/MIDI!6D, M05-2X/6-31G*, M05-2X/6-31+G**, M05-2X/cc-pVTZ, B3LYP/6-31G*, and HF/6-31G*.
Although the SMD model has been parametrized using the IEF-PCM protocol for bulk electrostatics, it may also be employed with other algorithms for solving the nonhomogeneous Poisson equation for continuum solvation calcns. in which the solute is represented by its electron d. in real space.
This includes, for example, the conductor-like screening algorithm.
With the 6-31G* basis set, the SMD model achieves mean unsigned errors of 0.6-1.0 kcal/mol in the solvation free energies of tested neutrals and mean unsigned errors of 4 kcal/mol on av. for ions with either Gaussian03 or GAMESS. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD1MXksV2is74%253D&md5=54931a64c70d28445ee53876a8b1a4b934Marenich, A. V.; Ho, J.; Coote, M. L.; Cramer, C. J.; Truhlar, D. G.
Computational electrochemistry: prediction of liquid-phase reduction potentials. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014,
16,
15068– 15106,  DOI: 10.1039/C4CP01572J [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar34Computational electrochemistry: prediction of liquid-phase reduction potentialsMarenich, Aleksandr V.; Ho, Junming; Coote, Michelle L.; Cramer, Christopher J.; Truhlar, Donald G.Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics
(2014),
16
(29),
15068-15106CODEN:
PPCPFQ;
ISSN:1463-9076.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
This article reviews recent developments and applications in the area of computational electrochem.
Our focus is on predicting the redn. potentials of electron transfer and other electrochem. reactions and half-reactions in both aq. and nonaq. solns.
Topics covered include various computational protocols that combine quantum mech. electronic structure methods (such as d. functional theory) with implicit-solvent models, explicit-solvent protocols that employ Monte Carlo or mol. dynamics simulations (for example, Car-Parrinello mol. dynamics using the grand canonical ensemble formalism), and the Marcus theory of electronic charge transfer.
We also review computational approaches based on empirical relationships between mol. and electronic structure and electron transfer reactivity.
The scope of the implicit-solvent protocols is emphasized, and the present status of the theory and future directions are outlined. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXhtVCis7vK&md5=f71a2d27cc6550442d7caea9ec3d5a4c35Hernández-Burgos, K.; Burkhardt, S. E.; Rodrıguez-Calero, G. G.; Hennig, R. G.; Abruña, H. D.
Theoretical Studies of Carbonyl-Based Organic Molecules for Energy Storage Applications: The Heteroatom and Substituent Effect. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014,
118,
6046– 6051,  DOI: 10.1021/jp4117613 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar35Theoretical Studies of Carbonyl-Based Organic Molecules for Energy Storage Applications: The Heteroatom and Substituent EffectHernandez-Burgos, Kenneth; Burkhardt, Stephen E.; Rodriguez-Calero, Gabriel G.; Hennig, Richard G.; Abruna, Hector D.Journal of Physical Chemistry C
(2014),
118
(12),
6046-6051CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
Org. compds. represent an attractive choice for cathode materials in rechargeable Li batteries.
Among all the org. functionalities, carbonyl-based org. mols. (C-bOMs) exhibit rapid and generally chem. reversible electrochem. behavior, and their reduced forms (enolates) can have strong ionic interactions with small radii cations (such as Li+).
Also, a wide range of chem. variations/modifications can be performed on C-bOM structures via synthesis.
The authors have systematically studied how to modify their electrochem. behavior by shifting the formal potential, maximizing the interaction of the various redox forms with Li ions, and maximizing the no. of electrons transferred while minimizing the mol. wt. of the compd., thus maximizing their gravimetric energy d.
The authors have performed d.-functional calcns. to predict the formal potentials of the C-bOMs materials (E = 2.0-4.0 V) and identify the most promising candidates.
The addn. of electron-withdrawing and -donating groups can be used to tune the formal potentials and Li ion binding energies.
Also, by using the LUMO energy levels and the aromaticity, which was calcd. with nuclear independent chem. shift (NICS), it was possible to study the stability of these systems.
Also, the authors were able to design and computationally characterize new C-bOMs mols., which represent new potentially high gravimetric energy d. cathode materials for elec. energy storage applications. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXjsFOqsrY%253D&md5=ad63966392341748abd0912ad13bbad536Pineda
Flores, S. D.; Martin-Noble, G. C.; Phillips, R. L.; Schrier, J.
Bio-Inspired Electroactive Organic Molecules for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. 1. Thiophenoquinones. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015,
119,
21800– 21809,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b05346 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar36Bio-Inspired Electroactive Organic Molecules for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. 1. ThiophenoquinonesPineda Flores, Sergio D.; Martin-Noble, Geoffrey C.; Phillips, Richard L.; Schrier, JoshuaJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2015),
119
(38),
21800-21809CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
Redox flow batteries (RFB) utilizing water-sol. org. redox couples are a new strategy for low-cost, eco-friendly, and durable stationary elec. energy storage.
Previous studies have focused on benzoquinones, naphthoquinones, and anthraquinones as the electroactive species.
Here, we explore a new class of mols.-thiophenoquinones-specifically focusing on the caldariellaquinone-, sulfolobusquinone-, and benzodithiophenoquinone-like frameworks that are used for metabolic processes in thermophilic aerobic Sulfolobus archaebacteria.
We demonstrated that B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) thermochem. calcns. (using the SMD solvation model) reproduce exptl. redn. potentials to within ±0.04 V.
We then studied the effect of amine, hydroxyl, Me, fluoro, phosphonic acid, sulfonic acid, carboxylic acid, and nitro functional group modifications on the redn. potential and Gibbs energy of solvation in water (using d. functional theory) and aq. soly. (using cheminformatics).
Next we enumerated all of the 10 611 possible combinations of functional group substitutions on these frameworks and identified 1056 potential mols. with solubilities exceeding 2 mol/L; of these, 36 mols. have redn. potentials below 0.25 V and 15 mols. above 0.95 V (vs. the std. hydrogen electrode (SHE)).
The combination of high soly. and wide voltage range makes these mols. promising candidates for high performance aq. RFB applications.
Finally, using our data set of ab initio redn. potentials, we developed a cheminformatics model that predicts ab initio redn. potentials to within ±0.09 V based solely on mol. connectivity.
We found that a model trained with as few as 200 examples generates rank-ordered predictions allowed us to identify the highest performance candidates with half the no. of ab initio calcns.
This offers a strategy for improving the tractability of future computational searches for high performance RFB mols. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXhsVGjsL%252FP&md5=e68834f5fedcee3b55a1e150d7aa9b8937Yin, W.; Grimaud, A.; Azcarate, I.; Yang, C.; Tarascon, J.-M.
Electrochemical Reduction of CO2 Mediated by Quinone Derivatives: Implication for Li-CO2 Battery. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018,
122,
6546– 6554,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b00109 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar37Electrochemical Reduction of CO2 Mediated by Quinone Derivatives: Implication for Li-CO2 BatteryYin, Wei; Grimaud, Alexis; Azcarate, Iban; Yang, Chunzhen; Tarascon, Jean-MarieJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2018),
122
(12),
6546-6554CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
The pivotal role of CO2 played in global temp. cycles has motivated the ongoing research on C capture and storage (CCS).
Within this context, Li-CO2 battery, alike the configuration of Li-O2 battery, is proposed as a novel energy storage device with the potential to reduce CO2.
Nevertheless, the highly neg. potential required for the electrochem. redn. of CO2 adds difficulty to the achievement of energy efficient Li-CO2 battery.
Facilitating the electron transfer to this inert mol., which largely dictates the discharge voltage and rate capability of a Li-CO2 battery, is therefore necessary.
Herein, three types of quinones were surveyed, aiming to mediate the redn. of CO2, which is expected to result in lower overpotential than with a direct electron transfer.
The authors demonstrate by cyclic voltammetry that, in the presence of quinones, CO2 redn. proceeds through an intermol. interaction between CO2 and quinone dianion.
Importantly, such catalytic CO2 redn. reaction is assocd. with the mol. structure of quinones, the supporting cation (e.g., Li+), and the electrolyte solvent.
Also, Li-CO2 battery mediated by 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone with Li2CO3 as the ultimate discharge product is achieved.
This study validates the concept of using quinones as chem. catalysts to promote CO2 redn. in Li-CO2 battery.
Besides, battery performance and NMR anal. together suggest that side reactions involving quinone itself and other cell components occur. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC1cXjtlOlsL4%253D&md5=1ee92cf5f0936ecf9957e53f390f18bb38Galbraith, J. M.; Schaefer, H. F.
Concerning the applicability of density functional methods to atomic and molecular negative ions. J. Chem. Phys. 1996,
105,
862– 864,  DOI: 10.1063/1.471933 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar38Concerning the applicability of density functional methods to atomic and molecular negative ionsGalbraith, John Morrison; Schaefer, Henry F., IIIJournal of Chemical Physics
(1996),
105
(2),
862-864CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
(American Institute of Physics)
There is concern within theor. chem. that d. functional methods are fundamentally in error for neg. ions.
The authors have tested this hypothesis by evaluating electron affinities for F and F2 with a variety of d. functionals and extremely large, diffuse basis sets.
In addn., the behavior of a known unbound system, Ne-, has been obsd.
No convincing evidence has been found to support the claims of neg. ion instability with d. functional methods. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK28XktValtLk%253D&md5=95a838534c836c13fca7b38ee742a08739Shore, H. B.; Rose, J. H.; Zaremba, E.
Failure of the local exchange approximation in the evaluation of the H– ground state. Phys. Rev. B 1977,
15,
2858– 2861,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.15.2858 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar39Failure of the local exchange approximation in the evaluation of the hydride ion ground stateShore, Herbert B.; Rose, J. H.; Zaremba, E.Physical Review B:
Solid State
(1977),
15
(6),
2858-61CODEN:
PLRBAQ;
ISSN:0556-2805.
The use of the local approxn. for the exchange and correlation energy within the d.-functional formalism (W. Kohn and L. J. Sham, 1965) proved to be much more successful than originally anticipated.
The calcn. of the ground state for weakly bound neg. ions, such as H-, provides a sensitive test of the local approxn., which is known to lead to an incorrect asymptotic form of the single-particle effective potential.
For H-, the result is a qual. incorrect ground state, the electrons being partially delocalized.
This problem can be cor. by constraining the electrons with a fictitious spherical barrier at a large radius.
By using this procedure, the ground-state energy of H- is -0.518 at. units and the electron affinity of H is -0.92 eV. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaE2sXhs1Wmt7c%253D&md5=0e129f5e7c8c73de5cb1db629ef22f8640Schwarz, K.
Instability of stable negative ions in the Xαmethod. A reply to a comment. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1980,
75,
199– 200,  DOI: 10.1016/0009-2614(80)80494-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar40Instability of stable negative ions in the Xα method:
a reply to a commentSchwarz, KarlheinzChemical Physics Letters
(1980),
75
(1),
199-200CODEN:
CHPLBC;
ISSN:0009-2614.
A polemic is given in reply to comments of K. D. Sen (ibid, 1980, 74, 201).
Argument is put forward that neg. ions are correctly calcd. to be stable, if, in the local d. functional formalism, a correction for the self-interaction term is made.
This correction, although it works for atoms or tightly-bound electrons cannot be directly extended to systems with delocalized electrons, for which the instability problem remains. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3cXmtFSmu7c%253D&md5=26b86859d3bea31a1142e8bfce8fc38e41Koch, W.; Holthausen, M. A Chemist’s Guide to Density Functional Theory, 2nd ed.; Wiley, 2001.[Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.42Glendening, E. D.; Landis, C. R.; Weinhold, F.
NBO 6.0: Natural bond orbital analysis program. J. Comput. Chem. 2013,
34,
1429– 1437,  DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23266 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar42NBO 6.0: Natural bond orbital analysis programGlendening, Eric D.; Landis, Clark R.; Weinhold, FrankJournal of Computational Chemistry
(2013),
34
(16),
1429-1437CODEN:
JCCHDD;
ISSN:0192-8651.
(John Wiley & Sons, Inc.)
We describe principal features of the newly released version, NBO 6.0, of the natural bond orbital anal. program, that provides novel "link-free" interactivity with host electronic structure systems, improved search algorithms and labeling conventions for a broader range of chem. species, and new anal. options that significantly extend the range of chem. applications.
We sketch the motivation and implementation of program changes and describe newer anal. options with illustrative applications. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC3sXjvVegurc%253D&md5=fb48d2b4c2eb40b7754268b53882ccc943Brunavs, M.; Dell, C. P.; Owton, W.
Direct fluorination of the anthraquinone nucleus: scope and application to the synthesis of novel rhein analogues. J. Fluorine Chem. 1994,
68,
201– 203,  DOI: 10.1016/0022-1139(93)03042-K [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar43Direct fluorination of the anthraquinone nucleus: scope and application to the synthesis of novel rhein analogsBrunavs, Michael; Dell, Colin P.; Owton, W. MartinJournal of Fluorine Chemistry
(1994),
68
(2),
201-3CODEN:
JFLCAR;
ISSN:0022-1139.
Direct fluorination of the functionalized anthraquinone di-Me rhein Me ester I (R = H) with Selectfluor proceeds regioselectively to give I (R = F), providing a concise approach to fluorinated compds. of potential medicinal interest.
This represents a new use for Selectfluor which hitherto has only been used for fluorinating relatively activated compds. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK2cXlsl2gtbo%253D&md5=4016314ec798cc34d6260e8857d5824344Kaieda, O.; Hirota, K.; Itoh, H.; Awashima, M.; Nakamura, T.
Method for production of fluorinated quinones. EP 0170190 B1, 1989.Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.45Owton, W. M.
Synthesis of 8-fluororhein. J. Chem. Soc., Perkin Trans. 1 1994,
2131– 2135,  DOI: 10.1039/p19940002131 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar45Synthesis of 8-fluororheinOwton, W. MartinJournal of the Chemical Society, Perkin Transactions 1:
Organic and Bio-Organic Chemistry (1972-1999)
(1994),
(15),
2131-5CODEN:
JCPRB4;
ISSN:0300-922X.
8-Fluoro-5-methoxy-1-tetralone has been formylated, aromatized and alkylated to give 8-fluoro-1-isopropoxy-5-methoxy-2-naphthaldehyde.
Condensation of this with a phosphonosuccinate gave, after deprotection, the 4-naphthylbutenoic acid which was cyclized and methylated to give the Et 9-fluoro-10-isopropoxy-4,6-dimethoxy-2-carboxylate.
Removal of the iso-Pr group, dichromate oxidn. and deprotection gave 8-fluorohein I, an analog of the osteoarthritis drug rhein. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK2cXmtVGis7o%253D&md5=0408e1c494c88b00091d1b55c41ce7bd46Wedege, K.; Dražević, E.; Konya, D.; Bentien, A.
Organic Redox Species in Aqueous Flow Batteries: Redox Potentials, Chemical Stability and Solubility. Sci. Rep. 2016,
6,
39101,  DOI: 10.1038/srep39101 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar46Organic Redox Species in Aqueous Flow Batteries: Redox Potentials, Chemical Stability and SolubilityWedege, Kristina; Drazevic, Emil; Konya, Denes; Bentien, AndersScientific Reports
(2016),
6
(),
39101CODEN:
SRCEC3;
ISSN:2045-2322.
(Nature Publishing Group)
Org. mols. are currently investigated as redox species for aq. low-cost redox flow batteries (RFBs).
The envisioned features of using org. redox species are low cost and increased flexibility with respect to tailoring redox potential and soly. from mol. engineering of side groups on the org. redox-active species.
In this paper 33, mainly quinone-based, compds. are studied experimentially in terms of pH dependent redox potential, soly. and stability, combined with single cell battery RFB tests on selected redox pairs.
Data shows that both the soly. and redox potential are detd. by the position of the side groups and only to a small extent by the no. of side groups.
Addnl., the chem. stability and possible degrdn. mechanisms leading to capacity loss over time are discussed.
The main challenge for the development of all-org. RFBs is to identify a redox pair for the pos. side with sufficiently high stability and redox potential that enables battery cell potentials above 1 V. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XitFGjtrjP&md5=e95a2c6c3325dbaa572dcf0b9659541047Only the derivatives that give a bound Q(CO2)22– structure by DFT are given.There is no corresponding record for this reference.48Singh, P.; Rheinhardt, J. H.; Olson, J. Z.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Mujica, V.; Buttry, D. A.
Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using a Disulfide-Thiocarbonate Redox Cycle. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017,
139,
1033– 1036,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b10806 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar47Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using a Disulfide-Thiocarbonate Redox CycleSingh, Poonam; Rheinhardt, Joseph H.; Olson, Jarred Z.; Tarakeshwar, Pilarisetty; Mujica, Vladimiro; Buttry, Daniel A.Journal of the American Chemical Society
(2017),
139
(3),
1033-1036CODEN:
JACSAT;
ISSN:0002-7863.
(American Chemical Society)
The authors describe a new electrochem. cycle that enables capture and release of CO2.
The capture agent is benzylthiolate (RS-), generated electrochem. by redn. of benzyldisulfide (RSSR).
Reaction of RS- with CO2 produces a terminal, S-bound monothiocarbonate, RSCO2-, which acts as the CO2 carrier species, much the same as a carbamate serves as the CO2 carrier for amine-based capture strategies.
Oxidn. of the thiocarbonate releases CO2 and regenerates RSSR.
The newly reported S-benzylthiocarbonate (IUPAC name benzylsulfanylformate) was characterized by 1H and 13C NMR, FTIR, and electrochem. anal.
The capture-release cycle was studied in the ionic liq. 1-butyl-1-methylpyrrolidinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (BMP TFSI) and DMF.
Quantum chem. calcns. give a binding energy of CO2 to benzyl thiolate of -66.3 kJ mol-1, consistent with the exptl. observation of formation of a stable CO2 adduct.
The data described here represent the 1st report of electrochem. behavior of a S-bound terminal thiocarbonate. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2sXkslWksg%253D%253D&md5=d5f772d0953ec2a8259221fc7ea4ab11PMID: 28052189.Cited By
Citation StatementsbetaSmart citations by scite.ai include citation statements extracted from the full text of the citing article. The number of the statements may be higher than the number of citations provided by ACS Publications if one paper cites another multiple times or lower if scite has not yet processed some of the citing articles.SupportingSupporting0MentioningMentioning9ContrastingContrasting0Explore this article's citation statements on scite.aipowered by
This article is cited by 2 publications.Alessandra M. Zito, Lauren E. Clarke, Jeffrey M. Barlow, Daniel Bím, Zisheng Zhang, Katelyn M. Ripley, Clarabella J. Li, Amanda Kummeth, McLain E. Leonard, Anastassia N. Alexandrova, Fikile R. Brushett, Jenny Y. Yang. Electrochemical Carbon Dioxide Capture and Concentration. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123
(13)
, 8069-8098. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00681Mohammad
Rahimi, Aliza
Khurram, T. Alan
Hatton, Betar
Gallant. Electrochemical carbon capture processes for mitigation of CO
2
emissions. Chemical Society Reviews 2022, 51
(20)
, 8676-8695. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CS00443GDownload PDFclose the sidebar.FiguresReferencesSupport InfoAbstractHigh Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideFigure 1Figure 1. EEC and EECC reaction schemes for electrochemical CO2 capture by AQ. (a) The stepwise EEC reaction scheme employed in the DFT calculations includes two electron transfer steps followed by one chemical step. The EECC scheme includes one further chemical step. (b) Experimental CV of AQ (1 mM in DMSO) under N2 recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1, with cathodic and anodic peaks labeled with oxidation and reduction species, respectively. (c) Orbitals representing the nucleophilic lone pairs (LP) and the O–CO2 bond (BD) formed based on the NBO analysis of DFT results.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideFigure 2Figure 2. Reduction potentials of selected AQ derivatives. (a) Structures of all selected compounds. (b) CVs of AQ derivatives (1 mM in DMSO) recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1 under N2. (c) Comparison of single-reduction potentials from CV and DFT. (d) Comparison of double-reduction potentials from CV and DFT. DFT reduction potentials were calculated with reference to AQ.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideFigure 3Figure 3. Calculated reduction potentials and capture abilities of F-substituted AQ derivatives. (a) Variation in the reduction potential for two-electron reduction. (b) Variation in the Gibbs free-energy changes for single CO2 capture (EEC scheme) and double CO2 capture (EECC scheme). The shifts are plotted relative to unsubstituted AQ. The actual energies and positions of the substutions are given in the SI. (c) Experimental CVs of unsubstituted AQ, 1,4-F-AQ, and AQ-F8 recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s–1 under both N2 and CO2.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideFigure 4Figure 4. Trade-off between the redox potential and the strength of CO2 capture for the (a and b) EEC and (c and d) EECC mechanisms. The computed shift in the Gibbs free-energy change for the chemical steps is plotted against the shift in the two-electron reduction potential EE in DMSO computed for (a and c) multiple F-substituted AQ and BQ derivatives and (b and d) the monosubsituted AQ derivatives. The solid blue line and the dashed red line are the best fits for the F-series of AQ and BQ, respectively. The shifts are plotted relative to unsubstituted AQ.High Resolution ImageDownload MS PowerPoint SlideReferencesARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 48 other publications.
1 Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups
I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change; Core Writing Team, Pachauri, R. K., Meyer, L., Eds.; IPCC: Geneva, Switzerland, 2014. https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/AR5_SYR_FINAL_Front_matters.pdf.Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.2Tollefson, J.; Weiss, K. R.
Nations approve historic global climate accord. Nature 2015,
528,
315– 316,  DOI: 10.1038/528315a [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar2Nations approve historic global climate accordTollefson, Jeff; Weiss, Kenneth R.Nature (London, United Kingdom)
(2015),
528
(7582),
315-316CODEN:
NATUAS;
ISSN:0028-0836.
(Nature Publishing Group)
Agreement forged in Paris aims to hold warming 'well below' 2 °C. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXitVemtrzK&md5=7545c5b61e03105576c77fbf5594e6673Cai, W.; Santoso, A.; Wang, G.; Yeh, S.-W.; An, S.-I.; Cobb, K. M.; Collins, M.; Guilyardi, E.; Jin, F.-F.; Kug, J.-S.
ENSO and greenhouse warming. Nature Climate Change 2015,
5,
849– 859,  DOI: 10.1038/nclimate2743 [Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.4Rochelle, G. T.
Amine scrubbing for CO2 capture. Science 2009,
325,
1652– 1654,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1176731 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar4Amine Scrubbing for CO2 CaptureRochelle, Gary T.Science (Washington, DC, United States)
(2009),
325
(5948),
1652-1654CODEN:
SCIEAS;
ISSN:0036-8075.
(American Association for the Advancement of Science)
A review.
Amine scrubbing was used to sep. carbon dioxide (CO2) from natural gas and hydrogen since 1930.
It is a robust technol. and is ready to be tested and used on a larger scale for CO2 capture from coal-fired power plants.
The min. work requirement to sep. CO2 from coal-fired flue gas and compress CO2 to 150 bar is 0.11 MW-hours per metric ton of CO2.
Process and solvent improvements should reduce the energy consumption to 0.2 MW-hour per ton of CO2.
Other advanced technologies will not provide energy-efficient or timely solns. to CO2 emission from conventional coal-fired power plants. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD1MXhtFGqt77P&md5=f83cd2a0cfac26a1468af606ec03bebc5Forse, A. C.; Milner, P. J.
New chemistry for enhanced carbon capture: beyond ammonium carbamates. Chem. Sci. 2021,
12,
508– 516,  DOI: 10.1039/D0SC06059C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar5New chemistry for enhanced carbon capture: beyond ammonium carbamatesForse, Alexander C.; Milner, Phillip J.Chemical Science
(2021),
12
(2),
508-516CODEN:
CSHCCN;
ISSN:2041-6520.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Carbon capture and sequestration is necessary to tackle one of the biggest problems facing society: global climate change resulting from anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
Despite this pressing need, we still rely on century-old technol.-aq. amine scrubbers-to selectively remove CO2 from emission streams.
Amine scrubbers are effective due to their exquisite chemoselectivity towards CO2 to form ammonium carbamates and (bi)carbonates, but suffer from several unavoidable limitations.
In this perspective, we highlight the need for CO2 capture via new chem. that goes beyond the traditional formation of ammonium carbamates.
In particular, we demonstrate how ionic liq. and metal-org. framework sorbents can give rise to capture products that are not favorable for aq. amines, including carbamic acids, carbamate-carbamic acid adducts, metal bicarbonates, alkyl carbonates, and carbonic acids.
These new CO2 binding modes may offer advantages including higher sorption capacities and lower regeneration energies, though addnl. research is needed to fully explore their utility for practical applications.
Overall, we outline the unique challenges and opportunities involved in engineering new CO2 capture chem. into next-generation technologies. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXisFWrsbfM&md5=8727571a1bf6c9ceeff496294b61533c6Vasudevan, S.; Farooq, S.; Karimi, I. A.; Saeys, M.; Quah, M. C.; Agrawal, R.
Energy penalty estimates for CO2 capture: Comparison between fuel types and capture-combustion modes. Energy 2016,
103,
709– 714,  DOI: 10.1016/j.energy.2016.02.154 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar6Energy penalty estimates for CO2 capture: Comparison between fuel types and capture-combustion modesVasudevan, Suraj; Farooq, Shamsuzzaman; Karimi, Iftekhar A.; Saeys, Mark; Quah, Michael C. G.; Agrawal, RakeshEnergy (Oxford, United Kingdom)
(2016),
103
(),
709-714CODEN:
ENEYDS;
ISSN:0360-5442.
(Elsevier Ltd.)
Carbon capture from power plants holds the key to any significant redn. in CO2 emissions.
This work considers the energy penalty related to CO2 capture from coal, natural gas and fuel oil-based power plants.
We evaluate the min. thermodn. work for CO2 capture, and then est. achievable targets.
All the three modes of capture-combustion: pre-combustion, post-combustion, and oxy combustion, are considered.
The low CO2 concn. in natural gas-based power plants translates into the highest capture energy per ton of CO2.
However, the lowest energy penalty of 10% is obtained with pre-combustion capture in natural gas-based power plants (vs. 17% for coal-based power plants).
The highest energy penalty of about 20% is found for oxy combustion capture from coal-based power plants.
In general, pre-combustion capture seems to provide the lowest energy penalties. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XksFKjt74%253D&md5=08ca0780f1f6c3b9def56bf7fcc9cc057Rheinhardt, J. H.; Singh, P.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Buttry, D. A.
Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide. ACS Energy Letters 2017,
2,
454– 461,  DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.6b00608 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar7Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon DioxideRheinhardt, Joseph H.; Singh, Poonam; Tarakeshwar, Pilarisetty; Buttry, Daniel A.ACS Energy Letters
(2017),
2
(2),
454-461CODEN:
AELCCP;
ISSN:2380-8195.
(American Chemical Society)
A review concerning the use of electrochem. cycles to capture CO2 from complex gas streams (e.g., flue gas) and release it in pure form is given.
These cycles typically rely on electrochem.-generated nucleophiles which attack CO2 at the electrophilic C atom, forming a CO2 adduct; then CO2 is released in pure form by a subsequent electrochem. step.
Advantages and disadvantages inherent in this general approach are discussed. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2sXhtFKlsLg%253D&md5=2f842bde68235c3cbc27a5d9ac3bd6218Renfrew, S. E.; Starr, D. E.; Strasser, P.
Electrochemical Approaches toward CO2 Capture and Concentration. ACS Catal. 2020,
10,
13058– 13074,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c03639 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar8Electrochemical Approaches toward CO2 Capture and ConcentrationRenfrew, Sara E.; Starr, David E.; Strasser, PeterACS Catalysis
(2020),
10
(21),
13058-13074CODEN:
ACCACS;
ISSN:2155-5435.
(American Chemical Society)
A review.
Carbon capture and concn. of low partial pressure CO2 in air and flue gas is a key step in carbon abatement strategies.
Traditional CO2 capture methods employ temp. or pressure swings; however, electrochem. swings, in which an applied potential modulates nucleophilicity, are also possible to mediate the capture and release of CO2.
In contrast to the breadth of electrochem. CO2 redn. research, electrochem. mediated CO2 capture and concn. is an emerging field.
Although some aspects are reminiscent of those in CO2 redn., like local pH gradients and (bi)carbonate equil., ultimately electrochem. CO2 capture and concn. poses its own unique challenges that will benefit from insights from intercalative batteries, redox flow batteries, and biomimetic/-inspired design, among other fields.
After an introduction to carbon capture and current chem. strategies, this Review highlights promising emerging electrochem. methods to enable CO2 capture and concn.; specifically discussed are org. redox, transition metal redox, and pH swings.
It closes with an outlook and discussion of future research challenges for electrochem. mediated capture. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXitFCqtLnF&md5=ec9c10913e242312a0f3d93a9be8b94f9Sullivan, I.; Goryachev, A.; Digdaya, I. A.; Li, X.; Atwater, H. A.; Vermaas, D. A.; Xiang, C.
Coupling electrochemical CO2 conversion with CO2 capture. Nature Catalysis 2021,
4,
952– 958,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-021-00699-7 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar9Coupling electrochemical CO2 conversion with CO2 captureSullivan, Ian; Goryachev, Andrey; Digdaya, Ibadillah A.; Li, Xueqian; Atwater, Harry A.; Vermaas, David A.; Xiang, ChengxiangNature Catalysis
(2021),
4
(11),
952-958CODEN:
NCAACP;
ISSN:2520-1158.
(Nature Portfolio)
A review.
Electrochem. CO2 conversion into fuels or chems. and CO2 capture from point or dil. sources are two important processes to address the gigaton challenges in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Both CO2 capture and electrochem. CO2 conversion are energy intensive, and synergistic coupling between the two processes can improve the energy efficiency of the system and reduce the cost of the reduced products, via eliminating the CO2 transport and storage or eliminating the capture media regeneration and mol. CO2 release.
We consider three different levels to couple electrochem. CO2 redn. with CO2 capture: independent (Type-I), subsequent (Type-II) and fully integrated (Type-III) capture and conversion processes.
We focus on Type-II and Type-III configurations and illustrate potential coupling routes of different capture media, which include amine-based solns. and direct carbamate redn., redox active carriers, aq. carbonate and bicarbonate solns., ionic liqs. CO2 capture and conversion mediated by covalent org. frameworks. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3MXisFagsbbK&md5=9745b821c78aee7fa66c96d5241e5b5d10Sharifian, R.; Wagterveld, R. M.; Digdaya, I. A.; Xiang, C.; Vermaas, D. A.
Electrochemical carbon dioxide capture to close the carbon cycle. Energy Environ. Sci. 2021,
14,
781– 814,  DOI: 10.1039/D0EE03382K [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar10Electrochemical carbon dioxide capture to close the carbon cycleSharifian, R.; Wagterveld, R. M.; Digdaya, I. A.; Xiang, C.; Vermaas, D. A.Energy & Environmental Science
(2021),
14
(2),
781-814CODEN:
EESNBY;
ISSN:1754-5706.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
A review.
Electrochem. CO2 capture technologies are gaining attention due to their flexibility, their ability to address decentralized emissions (e.g., ocean and atm.) and their fit in an electrified industry.
In the present work, recent progress made in electrochem. CO2 capture is reviewed.
The majority of these methods rely on the concept of "pH-swing" and the effect it has on the CO2 hydration/dehydration equil.
Through a pH-swing, CO2 can be captured and recovered by shifting the pH of a working fluid between acidic and basic pH.
Such swing can be applied electrochem. through electrolysis, bipolar membrane electrodialysis, reversible redox reactions and capacitive deionization.
In this review, we summarize main parameters governing these electrochem. pH-swing processes and put the concept in the framework of available worldwide capture technologies.
We analyze the energy efficiency and consumption of such systems, and provide recommendations for further improvements.
Although electrochem. CO2 capture technologies are rather costly compared to the amine based capture, they can be particularly interesting if more affordable renewable electricity and materials (e.g., electrode and membranes) become widely available.
Furthermore, electrochem. methods have the ability to (directly) convert the captured CO2 to value added chems. and fuels, and hence prep. for a fully electrified circular carbon economy. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXis1ansL7P&md5=33c71737ac0eb35d773878f9095e927811DuBois, D. L.; Miedaner, A.; Bell, W.; Smart, J. C.
Electrochemical Concentration of Carbon Dioxide. In
Electrochemical and Electrocatalytic Reactions of Carbon Dioxide; Sullivan, B. P., Ed.; Elsevier B.V.: New York, NY, 1993; pp
94– 117.[Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.12Mizen, M. B.; Wrighton, M. S.
Reductive Addition of CO2 to 9,10-Phenanthrenequinone. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1989,
136,
941,  DOI: 10.1149/1.2096891 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar12Reductive addition of carbon dioxide to 9,10-phenanthrenequinoneMizen, Mark B.; Wrighton, Mark S.Journal of the Electrochemical Society
(1989),
136
(4),
941-6CODEN:
JESOAN;
ISSN:0013-4651.
Two mols. of CO2 add to electrochem. reduced 9,10-phenanthreqnequinone (PAQ) in CH3CN/[n-Bu4N]BF4 to give the bis(carbonate), [PAQ.2CO2]2-.
In the absence of CO2, PAQ undergoes two reversible, one-electron redns. at -0.65 and -1.44 V vs. SCE in CH3CN.
Addn. of CO2 occurs at ∼ -0.7V vs. SCE with a rate const. of about 102 M-1s-1.
A further one-electron redn. takes place at the same potential and is followed by addn. of a second mol. of CO2.
The final CO2 addn. step is effectively chem. irreversible.
Oxidn. of the CO2 adduct results in the quant. regeneration of PAQ and CO2.
Redn. of PAQ with cobaltocene in the presence of CO2 also gives [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
IR, NMR, and UV-vis spectroscopy were used to identify and characterize [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
[PAQ . 2CO2]2- was also prepd. by addn. of CO2 to independently prepd. Na+2PAQ2-.
Loss of CO2 occurs upon addn. of either CH3I or (CH3O)2SO2 to a soln. of [PAQ . 2CO2]2-.
The expected methylation product, PAQ.2CO2CH3, was synthesized by electrochem. redn. of PAQ in the presence of ClCO2CH3. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL1MXit1WgsLo%253D&md5=51d7376700476eab3442fc98e7b3816913Scovazzo, P.; Poshusta, J.; DuBois, D.; Koval, C.; Noble, R.
Electrochemical Separation and Concentration of < 1% Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2003,
150,
D91,  DOI: 10.1149/1.1566962 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar13Electrochemical Separation and Concentration of <1% Carbon Dioxide from NitrogenScovazzo, Paul; Poshusta, Joe; DuBois, Dan; Koval, Carl; Noble, RichardJournal of the Electrochemical Society
(2003),
150
(5),
D91-D98CODEN:
JESOAN;
ISSN:0013-4651.
(Electrochemical Society)
Low energy sepns. for <1% CO2 gases would benefit gas treatment and CO2 sequestration.
Theor., electrochem. pumping can sep. and conc. CO2 from the atm. or other gases with <1% CO2 at significantly lower energy cost than current systems.
Principles of electrochem. pumping for CO2 sepns. are discussed and results for both org. solvent and ionic liq. working fluid systems are presented.
Due to the large quantities of gases requiring processing during the sepn./concn. of <1% CO2 gases, this work looked at solvents with negligible vapor pressures, specifically propylene carbonate and the room-temp. ionic liq. 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate.
Other important parameters, as illustrated by the data and models presented, are low CO2 soly. in the solvent, high CO2 carrier soly., CO2 binding consts., and the CO2 carrier's electrochem.
Reported is the electrochem. pumping of CO2 from 0.5% (in nitrogen) to 100%, a 200-fold increase in partial pressure, using the CO2 carrier 2,6-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone in a propylene carbonate soln.
The ratio of CO2 moles pumped per electron mole was 0.43.
The models detd. the optimal CO2 soly. in the solvent and the required redox swing in the CO2 binding consts. of the carrier. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD3sXivFaku7g%253D&md5=e47a40137068128e8b0caa250afc108014Apaydin, D. H.; Głowacki, E. D.; Portenkirchner, E.; Sariciftci, N. S.
Direct Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using an Industrial Organic Pigment: Quinacridone. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014,
53,
6819– 6822,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201403618 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar14Direct Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using an Industrial Organic Pigment: QuinacridoneApaydin, Dogukan Hazar; Glowacki, Eric Daniel; Portenkirchner, Engelbert; Sariciftci, Niyazi SerdarAngewandte Chemie, International Edition
(2014),
53
(26),
6819-6822CODEN:
ACIEF5;
ISSN:1433-7851.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
Limiting anthropogenic CO2 emissions is a major issue faced by scientists.
This work reports an efficient way for the controlled capture/release of CO2 using a nature-inspired inexpensive, abundant, non-toxic, industrial pigment: quinacridone.
An electrochem. reduced electrode with a quinacridone thin film (∼100 nm thick) on an indium tin oxide support forms a quinacridone carbonate salt.
Captured CO2 is released by electrochem. oxidn.
The amt. of CO2 captured was quantified by Fourier transform IR spectroscopy.
The uptake value for the electrochem. release process was 4.61 mmol/g.
This value is among the highest reported uptake efficiencies for electrochem. CO2 capture.
In comparison, a state-of-the-art aq. amine industrial capture process has an ∼8 mmol/g uptake efficiency. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXosV2ksr4%253D&md5=fd825766c63f6340cd5038cefe163f6015Gurkan, B.; Simeon, F.; Hatton, T. A.
Quinone Reduction in Ionic Liquids for Electrochemical CO2 Separation. ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2015,
3,
1394– 1405,  DOI: 10.1021/acssuschemeng.5b00116 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar15Quinone Reduction in Ionic Liquids for Electrochemical CO2 SeparationGurkan, Burcu; Simeon, Fritz; Hatton, T. AlanACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering
(2015),
3
(7),
1394-1405CODEN:
ASCECG;
ISSN:2168-0485.
(American Chemical Society)
The authors report the redox activity of quinone materials, in the presence of ionic liqs., with the ability to bind reversibly to CO2.
The redn. potential at which 1,4-naphthoquinone transforms to the quinone dianion depends on the strength of the H-bonding characteristics of the ionic liq. solvent; under CO2, this transformation occurs at much lower potentials than in a CO2-inert environment.
In the absence of CO2, two consecutive redn. steps are required to form 1st the radical anion and then the dianion, but with the quinones considered here, a single two-electron wave redn. with simultaneous binding of CO2 occurs.
In particular, the 1,4-naphthoquinone and 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tricyanomethanide, [emim][tcm], system reported here shows a higher quinone soly. (0.6 and 1.9 mol L-1 at 22 and 60°, resp.) compared to other ionic liqs. and most common solvents.
The high polarity detd. through the Kamlet-Taft parameters for [emim][tcm] explains the measured soly. of quinone.
The achieved high quinone soly. enables effective CO2 sepn. from the dil. gas mixt. that is contact with the cathode by overcoming back-diffusive transport of CO2 from the anodic side. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXotlCisbc%253D&md5=6667ba2e006485b82210d2b7ed38e84016Liu, Y.; Ye, H.-Z.; Diederichsen, K. M.; Van Voorhis, T.; Hatton, T. A.
Electrochemically mediated carbon dioxide separation with quinone chemistry in salt-concentrated aqueous media. Nat. Commun. 2020,
11,
2278,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16150-7 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar16Electrochemically mediated carbon dioxide separation with quinone chemistry in salt-concentrated aqueous mediaLiu, Yayuan; Ye, Hong-Zhou; Diederichsen, Kyle M.; Van Voorhis, Troy; Hatton, T. AlanNature Communications
(2020),
11
(1),
2278CODEN:
NCAOBW;
ISSN:2041-1723.
(Nature Research)
Carbon capture is essential for mitigating carbon dioxide emissions.
Compared to conventional chem. scrubbing, electrochem. mediated carbon capture utilizing redox-active sorbents such as quinones is emerging as a more versatile and economical alternative.
However, the practicality of such systems is hindered by the requirement of toxic, flammable org. electrolytes or often costly ionic liqs.
Herein, we demonstrate that rationally designed aq. electrolytes with high salt concn. can effectively resolve the incompatibility between aq. environments and quinone electrochem. for carbon capture, eliminating the safety, toxicity, and at least partially the cost concerns in previous studies.
Salt-concd. aq. media also offer distinct advantages including extended electrochem. window, high carbon dioxide activity, significantly reduced evaporative loss and material dissoln., and importantly, greatly suppressed competing reactions including under simulated flue gas.
Correspondingly, we achieve continuous carbon capture-release operations with outstanding capacity, stability, efficiency and electrokinetics, advancing electrochem. carbon sepn. further towards practical applications. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXptVert7o%253D&md5=26e8a5c278cb6d048bb8091aec3c3fd817Voskian, S.; Hatton, T. A.
Faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption for CO2 capture. Energy Environ. Sci. 2019,
12,
3530– 3547,  DOI: 10.1039/C9EE02412C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar17Faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption for CO2 captureVoskian, Sahag; Hatton, T. AlanEnergy & Environmental Science
(2019),
12
(12),
3530-3547CODEN:
EESNBY;
ISSN:1754-5706.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Carbon capture is one of the foremost methods for curtailing greenhouse gas emissions.
Incumbent technologies are inherently inefficient due to thermal energy losses, large footprint, or degrdn. of sorbent material.
We report a solid-state faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption system comprising an electrochem. cell that exploits the reductive addn. of CO2 to quinones for carbon capture.
The reported device is compact and flexible, obviates the need for ancillary equipment, and eliminates the parasitic energy losses by using electrochem. activated redox carriers.
An electrochem. cell with a polyanthraquinone-carbon nanotube composite neg. electrode captures CO2 upon charging via the carboxylation of reduced quinones, and releases CO2 upon discharge.
The cell architecture maximizes the surface area exposed to gas, allowing for ease of stacking of the cells in a parallel passage contactor bed.
We demonstrate the capture of CO2 both in a sealed chamber and in an adsorption bed from inlet streams of CO2 concns. as low as 0.6% (6000 ppm) and up to 10%, at a const. CO2 capacity with a faradaic efficiency of >90%, and a work of 40-90 kJ per mol of CO2 captured, with great durability of electrochem. cells showing <30% loss of capacity after 7000 cycles. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC1MXhvVOksL7J&md5=9921e8da53895f47f17567183b2a03a018Li, Q.; Batchelor-McAuley, C.; Lawrence, N. S.; Hartshorne, R. S.; Compton, R. G.
Semiquinone Intermediates in the Two-Electron Reduction of Quinones in Aqueous Media and their Exceptionally High Reactivity towards Oxygen Reduction. ChemPhysChem 2011,
12,
1255– 1257,  DOI: 10.1002/cphc.201100174 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar18Semiquinone Intermediates in the Two-Electron Reduction of Quinones in Aqueous Media and their Exceptionally High Reactivity towards Oxygen ReductionLi, Qian; Batchelor-McAuley, Christopher; Lawrence, Nathan S.; Hartshorne, Robert S.; Compton, Richard G.ChemPhysChem
(2011),
12
(7),
1255-1257CODEN:
CPCHFT;
ISSN:1439-4235.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
We report the catalytic anthraquinone-mediated redn. of oxygen at a boron-doped diamond electrode.
Scheme of squares modeling confirms the existence of and reveals the role of the semiquinone intermediates, which are shown to have an exceptional reactivity towards oxygen (as compared to the di-reduced anthraquinone). >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC3MXls1eksLk%253D&md5=802d6ba770a100d59ca6003e21ac004419Yang, J., Barlow, J.
Oxygen Stable Electrochemical CO2 Capture and Concentration through Alcohol Additives.
ChemRxiv , December 8, 2021, ver. 1. DOI: 10.26434/chemrxiv-2021-2lg87 .[Crossref], [PubMed], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.20Nagaoka, T.; Nishii, N.; Fujii, K.; Ogura, K.
Mechanisms of reductive addition of CO2 to quinones in acetonitrile. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1992,
322,
383– 389,  DOI: 10.1016/0022-0728(92)80090-Q [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar20Mechanism of reductive addition of carbon dioxide to quinones in acetonitrileNagaoka, Tsutomu; Nishii, Nobuyuki; Fujii, Koji; Ogura, KotaroJournal of Electroanalytical Chemistry and Interfacial Electrochemistry
(1992),
322
(1-2),
383-9CODEN:
JEIEBC;
ISSN:0022-0728.
The reductive coupling of CO2 to quinone anions in MeCN was studied.
Cyclic voltammograms are given for 1,2-naphthoquinone on a glassy C in the presence and absence of CO2 in MeCN contg. Et4NClO4.
Assocn. consts. and stoichiometric consts. were evaluated from shifts in the polarog. half-wave potential. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK38Xit1els7w%253D&md5=19201b62352198145f09eafdd546aa4a21Simeon, F.; Stern, M. C.; Diederichsen, K. M.; Liu, Y.; Herzog, H. J.; Hatton, T. A.
Electrochemical and Molecular Assessment of Quinones as CO2-Binding Redox Molecules for Carbon Capture. J. Phys. Chem. C 2022,
126,
1389– 1399,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c09415 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar21Electrochemical and Molecular Assessment of Quinones as CO2-Binding Redox Molecules for Carbon CaptureSimeon, Fritz; Stern, Michael C.; Diederichsen, Kyle M.; Liu, Yayuan; Herzog, Howard J.; Hatton, T. AlanJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2022),
126
(3),
1389-1399CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
The complexation and decomplexation of CO2 with a series of quinones of different basicity during electrochem. cycling in DMF solns. were studied systematically by cyclic voltammetry.
In the absence of CO2, all quinones exhibited two well-sepd. redn. waves.
For weakly complexing quinones, a pos. shift in the second redn. wave was obsd. in the presence of CO2, corresponding to the dianion quinone-CO2 complex formation; there was no formation of complexes between the semiquinones and CO2.
For strongly complexing quinones, the second redn. wave merged with the first, indicating that the two electrons transferred simultaneously at this potential.
Both weakly and strongly complexing quinones underwent oxidn. and CO2 dissocn. with the order depending on the sweep rate in the cyclic voltammetric expts., termed either electrochem.-chem. or chem.-electrochem.
This study provides an interpretation of the interactions that lead to the formation of quinone-CO2 complexes required for the potential development of an energy efficient electrochem. sepn. process and discusses important considerations for practical implementation of CO2 capture in the presence of oxygen with lower vapor pressure solvents. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB38XhtFSktr8%253D&md5=95e196c89bda35e95f977f4b18d1feac22Bachman, J. E.; Curtiss, L. A.; Assary, R. S.
Investigation of the Redox Chemistry of Anthraquinone Derivatives Using Density Functional Theory. J. Phys. Chem. A 2014,
118,
8852– 8860,  DOI: 10.1021/jp5060777 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar22Investigation of the Redox Chemistry of Anthraquinone Derivatives Using Density Functional TheoryBachman, Jonathan E.; Curtiss, Larry A.; Assary, Rajeev S.Journal of Physical Chemistry A
(2014),
118
(38),
8852-8860CODEN:
JPCAFH;
ISSN:1089-5639.
(American Chemical Society)
Application of d. functional calcns. to compute electrochem. properties such as redox windows, effect of substitution by electron donating and electron withdrawing groups on redox windows, and solvation free energies for ∼50 anthraquinone (AQ) derivs. are presented because of their potential as anolytes in all-org. redox flow batteries.
Computations suggest that lithium ions can increase (by ∼0.4 V) the redn. potential of anthraquinone due to the lithium ion pairing by forming a Lewis base-Lewis acid complex.
To design new redox active species, the substitution by electron donating groups is essential to improve the redn. window of AQ with adequate oxidative stability.
For instance, a complete methylation of AQ can improve its redn. window by ∼0.4 V.
The quantum chem. studies of the ∼50 AQ derivs. are used to derive a relationship that connects the computed LUMO energy and the redn. potential that can be applied as a descriptor for screening thousands of AQ derivs.
Our computations also suggest that incorporating oxy-Me dioxolane substituents in the AQ framework can increase its interaction with nonaq. solvent and improve its soly.
Thermochem. calcns. for likely bond breaking decompn. reactions of unsubstituted AQ anions suggest that the dianions are relatively stable in the soln.
These studies provide an ideal platform to perform further combined exptl. and theor. studies to understand the electrochem. reversibility and soly. of new quinone mols. as energy storage materials. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXhsVeksbjF&md5=df1850a724d890fe869dec2ad234942623Wang, Z.; Li, A.; Gou, L.; Ren, J.; Zhai, G.
Computational electrochemistry study of derivatives of anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone analogues: the substitution effect. RSC Adv. 2016,
6,
89827– 89835,  DOI: 10.1039/C6RA19128B [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar23Computational electrochemistry study of derivatives of anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone analogues: the substitution effectWang, Zhen; Li, Anyang; Gou, Lei; Ren, Jingzheng; Zhai, GaohongRSC Advances
(2016),
6
(92),
89827-89835CODEN:
RSCACL;
ISSN:2046-2069.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
The substituent effect on fused heteroarom. anthraquinone and phenanthraquinone are investigated by d. functional calcns. to det. some guidelines for designing potential cathode materials for rechargeable Li-ion batteries.
The calcd. redox potentials of the quinone derivs. change monotonically with increasing no. of substitutions.
Full substitution with electron-withdrawing groups brings the highest redox potential; however, mono-substitution results in the largest mass energy d.
Carbonyl groups are the most favorable active Li-binding sites; moreover, intramol. lithium bonds can be formed between Li atoms and electroneg. atoms from the substituent groups.
The lithium bonds increase the redox potential by improving the thermodn. stabilization of the lithiation derivs.
Furthermore, the calcn. of nucleus-independent chem. shift indicates that the derivs. with Li-bound carbonyl groups are more stable than the bare derivs. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XhslOqtrbJ&md5=44e59765be7c9c9b3a5a6de4ff0151b624Schwan, S.; Schröder, D.; Wegner, H. A.; Janek, J.; Mollenhauer, D.
Substituent Pattern Effects on the Redox Potentials of Quinone-Based Active Materials for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. ChemSusChem 2020,
13,
5480– 5488,  DOI: 10.1002/cssc.202000454 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar24Substituent Pattern Effects on the Redox Potentials of Quinone-Based Active Materials for Aqueous Redox Flow BatteriesSchwan, S.; Schroeder, D.; Wegner, H. A.; Janek, J.; Mollenhauer, D.ChemSusChem
(2020),
13
(20),
5480-5488CODEN:
CHEMIZ;
ISSN:1864-5631.
(Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA)
Quinone-based, aq. redox flow batteries are a promising technol. for large-scale, low-cost energy storage.
To understand the influence of substituent and substituent pattern effects of quinone-based derivs. on the redox potential, a screening study was performed that included benzoquinone, naphtaquinone, and anthraquinone derivs.
The order of substituent influence is -OH>-Me/-OMe for decreasing the redox potential and -F<-SO3-<-CN, -NO2 for increasing the redox potential, which is in agreement with general expectations.
We found that the consideration of resonance and inductive effects design strategies of redox-active materials can be extended by the ability of intramol. hydrogen bond formation, steric hindrance, and energetic differences of conformers for oxidized and reduced species.
Due to the complexity and overlap of these effects, theor. screening studies can provide guidance for the design of new mol. materials.
In addn. to the redox potential, other parameters such as stability, soly., and kinetic rate const. or synthetic accessibility are crucial to consider. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXhvV2msLrK&md5=0932af2d311f61591799b0c155c61fa425Er, S.; Suh, C.; Marshak, M. P.; Aspuru-Guzik, A.
Computational design of molecules for an all-quinone redox flow battery. Chem. Sci. 2015,
6,
885– 893,  DOI: 10.1039/C4SC03030C [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar25Computational design of molecules for an all-quinone redox flow batteryEr, Suleyman; Suh, Changwon; Marshak, Michael P.; Aspuru-Guzik, AlanChemical Science
(2015),
6
(2),
885-893CODEN:
CSHCCN;
ISSN:2041-6520.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
Inspired by the electron transfer properties of quinones in biol. systems, we recently showed that quinones are also very promising electroactive materials for stationary energy storage applications.
Due to the practically infinite chem. space of org. mols., the discovery of addnl. quinones or other redox-active org. mols. for energy storage applications is an open field of inquiry.
Here, we introduce a high-throughput computational screening approach that we applied to an accelerated study of a total of 1710 quinone (Q) and hydroquinone (QH2) (i.e., two-electron two-proton) redox couples.
We identified the promising candidates for both the neg. and pos. sides of org.-based aq. flow batteries, thus enabling an all-quinone battery.
To further aid the development of addnl. interesting electroactive small mols. we also provide emerging quant. structure-property relationships. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXitVSitrzF&md5=47e9269451f3d0a6dabac2d994d08ef126Méndez-Hernández, D. D.; Gillmore, J. G.; Montano, L. A.; Gust, D.; Moore, T. A.; Moore, A. L.; Mujica, V.
Building and testing correlations for the estimation of one-electron reduction potentials of a diverse set of organic molecules. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2015,
28,
320– 328,  DOI: 10.1002/poc.3413 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar26Building and testing correlations for the estimation of one-electron reduction potentials of a diverse set of organic moleculesMendez-Hernandez, Dalvin D.; Gillmore, Jason G.; Montano, Luis A.; Gust, Devens; Moore, Thomas A.; Moore, Ana L.; Mujica, VladimiroJournal of Physical Organic Chemistry
(2015),
28
(5),
320-328CODEN:
JPOCEE;
ISSN:0894-3230.
(John Wiley & Sons Ltd.)
The authors describe and evaluate a method for computationally predicting redn. potentials of a diverse group of org. mols. by linearly correlating calcd. LUMO energies with ground state redn. potentials measured in acetonitrile.
The approach provides a unique combination of extreme computational simplicity and excellent accuracy across a diverse range of org. structures and a wide window of redn. potentials.
A disparate set of mols. (74 compds. belonging to six distinct structural families, comprised of mols. contg. C, H, N, O, F, Cl, and Br, with functional groups including esters, ketones, halides, nitriles, quinones, alkenes, arenes, heteroarenes, and pyridinium and higher benzologs, all contg. conjugated pi systems, spanning a 3.5-V range of redn. potentials) was used to build the correlations.
This methodol. is computationally inexpensive compared with other approaches and to permit the useful prediction of redn. potentials of addnl. mols. of diverse structural types not included in the families used to det. the correlation parameters.
The effects of varying the basis set used in the B3LYP electronic structure calcns. and including solvent (compared with calcns. in gas phase) were also examd.
The inclusion of a continuum solvent model in the calcns. was required for accurate results, particularly when including cationic species in the correlations (although when only neutral mols. were examd., reasonable results could even be obtained in vacuo).
Several of the best correlations were used to predict the redn. potentials of seven much larger and structurally diverse chromophores that were not included in the correlation data set.
Strong correlations (r2 values > 0.99) with very good predictive abilities (root mean square deviation < 60 mV) were found.
This extremely simple and computationally efficient entirely closed-shell methodol. is proven robust and useful for the design of new mols. capable of participating in redox processes, including electron transfer reactions.
Copyright © 2015 John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXkvVSmt7c%253D&md5=de387f722e547d82f211805192b94f6327Zhang, Q.; Khetan, A.; Er, S.
Comparison of computational chemistry methods for the discovery of quinone-based electroactive compounds for energy storage. Sci. Rep 2020,
10,
22149,  DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-79153-w [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar27Comparison of computational chemistry methods for the discovery of quinone-based electroactive compounds for energy storageZhang, Qi; Khetan, Abhishek; Er, SueleymanScientific Reports
(2020),
10
(1),
22149CODEN:
SRCEC3;
ISSN:2045-2322.
(Nature Research)
Abstr.: High-throughput computational screening (HTCS) is a powerful approach for the rational and time-efficient design of electroactive compds.
The effectiveness of HTCS is dependent on accuracy and speed at which the performance descriptors can be estd. for possibly millions of candidate compds.
Here, a systematic evaluation of computational methods, including force field (FF), semi-empirical quantum mechanics (SEQM), d. functional based tight binding (DFTB), and d. functional theory (DFT), is performed on the basis of their accuracy in predicting the redox potentials of redox-active org. compds.
Geometry optimizations at low-level theories followed by single point energy (SPE) DFT calcns. that include an implicit solvation model are found to offer equipollent accuracy as the high-level DFT methods, albeit at significantly lower computational costs.
Effects of implicit solvation on mol. geometries and SPEs, and their overall effects on the prediction accuracy of redox potentials are analyzed in view of computational cost vs. prediction accuracy, which outlines the best choice of methods corresponding to a desired level of accuracy.
The modular computational approach is applicable for accelerating the virtual studies on functional quinones and the resp. discovery of candidate compds. for energy storage. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3cXislSht7zE&md5=6b562f6932db8d849c714e0f68f58dff28Epifanovsky, E.
Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 package. J. Chem. Phys. 2021,
155,
084801,  DOI: 10.1063/5.0055522 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar28Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 packageEpifanovsky, Evgeny; Gilbert, Andrew T. B.; Feng, Xintian; Lee, Joonho; Mao, Yuezhi; Mardirossian, Narbe; Pokhilko, Pavel; White, Alec F.; Coons, Marc P.; Dempwolff, Adrian L.; Gan, Zhengting; Hait, Diptarka; Horn, Paul R.; Jacobson, Leif D.; Kaliman, Ilya; Kussmann, Jorg; Lange, Adrian W.; Lao, Ka Un; Levine, Daniel S.; Liu, Jie; McKenzie, Simon C.; Morrison, Adrian F.; Nanda, Kaushik D.; Plasser, Felix; Rehn, Dirk R.; Vidal, Marta L.; You, Zhi-Qiang; Zhu, Ying; Alam, Bushra; Albrecht, Benjamin J.; Aldossary, Abdulrahman; Alguire, Ethan; Andersen, Josefine H.; Athavale, Vishikh; Barton, Dennis; Begam, Khadiza; Behn, Andrew; Bellonzi, Nicole; Bernard, Yves A.; Berquist, Eric J.; Burton, Hugh G. A.; Carreras, Abel; Carter-Fenk, Kevin; Chakraborty, Romit; Chien, Alan D.; Closser, Kristina D.; Cofer-Shabica, Vale; Dasgupta, Saswata; de Wergifosse, Marc; Deng, Jia; Diedenhofen, Michael; Do, Hainam; Ehlert, Sebastian; Fang, Po-Tung; Fatehi, Shervin; Feng, Qingguo; Friedhoff, Triet; Gayvert, James; Ge, Qinghui; Gidofalvi, Gergely; Goldey, Matthew; Gomes, Joe; Gonzalez-Espinoza, Cristina E.; Gulania, Sahil; Gunina, Anastasia O.; Hanson-Heine, Magnus W. D.; Harbach, Phillip H. P.; Hauser, Andreas; Herbst, Michael F.; Hernandez Vera, Mario; Hodecker, Manuel; Holden, Zachary C.; Houck, Shannon; Huang, Xunkun; Hui, Kerwin; Huynh, Bang C.; Ivanov, Maxim; Jasz, Adam; Ji, Hyunjun; Jiang, Hanjie; Kaduk, Benjamin; Kahler, Sven; Khistyaev, Kirill; Kim, Jaehoon; Kis, Gergely; Klunzinger, Phil; Koczor-Benda, Zsuzsanna; Koh, Joong Hoon; Kosenkov, Dimitri; Koulias, Laura; Kowalczyk, Tim; Krauter, Caroline M.; Kue, Karl; Kunitsa, Alexander; Kus, Thomas; Ladjanszki, Istvan; Landau, Arie; Lawler, Keith V.; Lefrancois, Daniel; Lehtola, Susi; Li, Run R.; Li, Yi-Pei; Liang, Jiashu; Liebenthal, Marcus; Lin, Hung-Hsuan; Lin, You-Sheng; Liu, Fenglai; Liu, Kuan-Yu; Loipersberger, Matthias; Luenser, Arne; Manjanath, Aaditya; Manohar, Prashant; Mansoor, Erum; Manzer, Sam F.; Mao, Shan-Ping; Marenich, Aleksandr V.; Markovich, Thomas; Mason, Stephen; Maurer, Simon A.; McLaughlin, Peter F.; Menger, Maximilian F. S. J.; Mewes, Jan-Michael; Mewes, Stefanie A.; Morgante, Pierpaolo; Mullinax, J. Wayne; Oosterbaan, Katherine J.; Paran, Garrette; Paul, Alexander C.; Paul, Suranjan K.; Pavosevic, Fabijan; Pei, Zheng; Prager, Stefan; Proynov, Emil I.; Rak, Adam; Ramos-Cordoba, Eloy; Rana, Bhaskar; Rask, Alan E.; Rettig, Adam; Richard, Ryan M.; Rob, Fazle; Rossomme, Elliot; Scheele, Tarek; Scheurer, Maximilian; Schneider, Matthias; Sergueev, Nickolai; Sharada, Shaama M.; Skomorowski, Wojciech; Small, David W.; Stein, Christopher J.; Su, Yu-Chuan; Sundstrom, Eric J.; Tao, Zhen; Thirman, Jonathan; Tornai, Gabor J.; Tsuchimochi, Takashi; Tubman, Norm M.; Veccham, Srimukh Prasad; Vydrov, Oleg; Wenzel, Jan; Witte, Jon; Yamada, Atsushi; Yao, Kun; Yeganeh, Sina; Yost, Shane R.; Zech, Alexander; Zhang, Igor Ying; Zhang, Xing; Zhang, Yu; Zuev, Dmitry; Aspuru-Guzik, Alan; Bell, Alexis T.; Besley, Nicholas A.; Bravaya, Ksenia B.; Brooks, Bernard R.; Casanova, David; Chai, Jeng-Da; Coriani, Sonia; Cramer, Christopher J.; Cserey, Gyorgy; DePrince, A. Eugene; DiStasio, Robert A.; Dreuw, Andreas; Dunietz, Barry D.; Furlani, Thomas R.; Goddard, William A.; Hammes-Schiffer, Sharon; Head-Gordon, Teresa; Hehre, Warren J.; Hsu, Chao-Ping; Jagau, Thomas-C.; Jung, Yousung; Klamt, Andreas; Kong, Jing; Lambrecht, Daniel S.; Liang, WanZhen; Mayhall, Nicholas J.; McCurdy, C. William; Neaton, Jeffrey B.; Ochsenfeld, Christian; Parkhill, John A.; Peverati, Roberto; Rassolov, Vitaly A.; Shao, Yihan; Slipchenko, Lyudmila V.; Stauch, Tim; Steele, Ryan P.; Subotnik, Joseph E.; Thom, Alex J. W.; Tkatchenko, Alexandre; Truhlar, Donald G.; Van Voorhis, Troy; Wesolowski, Tomasz A.; Whaley, K. Birgitta; Woodcock, H. Lee; Zimmerman, Paul M.; Faraji, Shirin; Gill, Peter M. W.; Head-Gordon, Martin; Herbert, John M.; Krylov, Anna I.Journal of Chemical Physics
(2021),
155
(8),
084801CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
(American Institute of Physics)
A review.
This article summarizes tech. advances contained in the fifth major release of the Q-Chem quantum chem. program package, covering developments since 2015.
A comprehensive library of exchange-correlation functionals, along with a suite of correlated many-body methods, continues to be a hallmark of the Q-Chem software.
The many-body methods include novel variants of both coupled-cluster and configuration-interaction approaches along with methods based on the algebraic diagrammatic construction and variational reduced d.-matrix methods.
Methods highlighted in Q-Chem 5 include a suite of tools for modeling core-level spectroscopy, methods for describing metastable resonances, methods for computing vibronic spectra, the nuclear-electronic orbital method, and several different energy decompn. anal. techniques.
High-performance capabilities including multithreaded parallelism and support for calcns. on graphics processing units are described.
Q-Chem boasts a community of well over 100 active academic developers, and the continuing evolution of the software is supported by an "open teamware" model and an increasingly modular design.
(c) 2021 American Institute of Physics. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BB3MXhvVymsb3P&md5=34fdc0f501633082f75521c06be38ab229Becke, A. D.
Density functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchange. J. Chem. Phys. 1993,
98,
5648– 5652,  DOI: 10.1063/1.464913 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar29Density-functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchangeBecke, Axel D.Journal of Chemical Physics
(1993),
98
(7),
5648-52CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
Despite the remarkable thermochem. accuracy of Kohn-Sham d.-functional theories with gradient corrections for exchange-correlation, the author believes that further improvements are unlikely unless exact-exchange information is considered.
Arguments to support this view are presented, and a semiempirical exchange-correlation functional (contg. local-spin-d., gradient, and exact-exchange terms) is tested for 56 atomization energies, 42 ionization potentials, 8 proton affinities, and 10 total at. energies of first- and second-row systems.
This functional performs better than previous functionals with gradient corrections only, and fits expt. atomization energies with an impressively small av. abs. deviation of 2.4 kcal/mol. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK3sXisVWgtrw%253D&md5=291bbfc119095338bb1624f0c21c7ca830Lee, C.; Yang, W.; Parr, R. G.
Development of the Colle-Salvetti correlation-energy formula into a functional of the electron density. Phys. Rev. B 1988,
37,
785– 789,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.37.785 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar30Development of the Colle-Salvetti correlation-energy formula into a functional of the electron densityLee, Chengteh; Yang, Weitao; Parr, Robert G.Physical Review B:
Condensed Matter and Materials Physics
(1988),
37
(2),
785-9CODEN:
PRBMDO;
ISSN:0163-1829.
A correlation-energy formula due to R. Colle and D. Salvetti (1975), in which the correlation energy d. is expressed in terms of the electron d. and a Laplacian of the 2nd-order Hartree-Fock d. matrix, is restated as a formula involving the d. and local kinetic-energy d.
On insertion of gradient expansions for the local kinetic-energy d., d.-functional formulas for the correlation energy and correlation potential are then obtained.
Through numerical calcns. on a no. of atoms, pos. ions, and mols., of both open- and closed-shell type, it is demonstrated that these formulas, like the original Colle-Salvetti formulas, give correlation energies within a few percent. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL1cXktFWrtbw%253D&md5=ee7b59267a2ff72e15171a481819ccf831Clark, T.; Chandrasekhar, J.; Spitznagel, G. W.; Schleyer, P. V. R.
Efficient diffuse function-augmented basis sets for anion calculations. III. The 3-21+G basis set for first-row elements, Li-F. J. Comput. Chem. 1983,
4,
294– 301,  DOI: 10.1002/jcc.540040303 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar31Efficient diffuse function-augmented basis sets for anion calculations.
III.
The 3-21 + G basis set for first-row elements, lithium to fluorineClark, Timothy; Chandrasekhar, Jayaraman; Spitznagel, Guenther W.; Schleyer, Paul v. R.Journal of Computational Chemistry
(1983),
4
(3),
294-301CODEN:
JCCHDD;
ISSN:0192-8651.
The relatively small diffuse function-augmented basis set, 3-21+G, describes anion geometries and proton affinities adequately.
The diffuse sp orbital exponents are recommended for general use to augment larger basis sets. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3sXlt1ymsb8%253D&md5=2c6dc9df839e5a23820c29db41ce68dc32Krishnan, R.; Binkley, J. S.; Seeger, R.; Pople, J. A.
Self-consistent molecular orbital methods. XX. A basis set for correlated wave functions. J. Chem. Phys. 1980,
72,
650– 654,  DOI: 10.1063/1.438955 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar32Self-consistent molecular orbital methods.
XX.
A basis set for correlated wave functionsKrishnan, R.; Binkley, J. S.; Seeger, R.; Pople, J. A.Journal of Chemical Physics
(1980),
72
(1),
650-4CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
A contracted Gaussian basis set (6-311G**) is developed by optimizing exponents and coeffs. at the Moller-Plesset (MP) second-order level for the ground states of first-row atoms.
This has a triple split in the valence s and p shells together with a single set of uncontracted polarization functions on each atom.
The basis is tested by computing structures and energies for some simple mols. at various levels of MP theory and comparing with expt. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3cXpvFyitA%253D%253D&md5=eb331bad0222adcbe7cad5152727372533Marenich, A. V.; Cramer, C. J.; Truhlar, D. G.
Universal Solvation Model Based on Solute Electron Density and on a Continuum Model of the Solvent Defined by the Bulk Dielectric Constant and Atomic Surface Tensions. J. Phys. Chem. B 2009,
113,
6378– 6396,  DOI: 10.1021/jp810292n [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar33Universal Solvation Model Based on Solute Electron Density and on a Continuum Model of the Solvent Defined by the Bulk Dielectric Constant and Atomic Surface TensionsMarenich, Aleksandr V.; Cramer, Christopher J.; Truhlar, Donald G.Journal of Physical Chemistry B
(2009),
113
(18),
6378-6396CODEN:
JPCBFK;
ISSN:1520-6106.
(American Chemical Society)
We present a new continuum solvation model based on the quantum mech. charge d. of a solute mol. interacting with a continuum description of the solvent.
The model is called SMD, where the "D" stands for "d." to denote that the full solute electron d. is used without defining partial at. charges.
"Continuum" denotes that the solvent is not represented explicitly but rather as a dielec. medium with surface tension at the solute-solvent boundary.
SMD is a universal solvation model, where "universal" denotes its applicability to any charged or uncharged solute in any solvent or liq. medium for which a few key descriptors are known (in particular, dielec. const., refractive index, bulk surface tension, and acidity and basicity parameters).
The model separates the observable solvation free energy into two main components.
The first component is the bulk electrostatic contribution arising from a self-consistent reaction field treatment that involves the soln. of the nonhomogeneous Poisson equation for electrostatics in terms of the integral-equation-formalism polarizable continuum model (IEF-PCM).
The cavities for the bulk electrostatic calcn. are defined by superpositions of nuclear-centered spheres.
The second component is called the cavity-dispersion-solvent-structure term and is the contribution arising from short-range interactions between the solute and solvent mols. in the first solvation shell.
This contribution is a sum of terms that are proportional (with geometry-dependent proportionality consts. called at. surface tensions) to the solvent-accessible surface areas of the individual atoms of the solute.
The SMD model has been parametrized with a training set of 2821 solvation data including 112 aq. ionic solvation free energies, 220 solvation free energies for 166 ions in acetonitrile, methanol, and DMSO, 2346 solvation free energies for 318 neutral solutes in 91 solvents (90 nonaq. org. solvents and water), and 143 transfer free energies for 93 neutral solutes between water and 15 org. solvents.
The elements present in the solutes are H, C, N, O, F, Si, P, S, Cl, and Br.
The SMD model employs a single set of parameters (intrinsic at. Coulomb radii and at. surface tension coeffs.) optimized over six electronic structure methods: M05-2X/MIDI!6D, M05-2X/6-31G*, M05-2X/6-31+G**, M05-2X/cc-pVTZ, B3LYP/6-31G*, and HF/6-31G*.
Although the SMD model has been parametrized using the IEF-PCM protocol for bulk electrostatics, it may also be employed with other algorithms for solving the nonhomogeneous Poisson equation for continuum solvation calcns. in which the solute is represented by its electron d. in real space.
This includes, for example, the conductor-like screening algorithm.
With the 6-31G* basis set, the SMD model achieves mean unsigned errors of 0.6-1.0 kcal/mol in the solvation free energies of tested neutrals and mean unsigned errors of 4 kcal/mol on av. for ions with either Gaussian03 or GAMESS. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BD1MXksV2is74%253D&md5=54931a64c70d28445ee53876a8b1a4b934Marenich, A. V.; Ho, J.; Coote, M. L.; Cramer, C. J.; Truhlar, D. G.
Computational electrochemistry: prediction of liquid-phase reduction potentials. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014,
16,
15068– 15106,  DOI: 10.1039/C4CP01572J [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar34Computational electrochemistry: prediction of liquid-phase reduction potentialsMarenich, Aleksandr V.; Ho, Junming; Coote, Michelle L.; Cramer, Christopher J.; Truhlar, Donald G.Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics
(2014),
16
(29),
15068-15106CODEN:
PPCPFQ;
ISSN:1463-9076.
(Royal Society of Chemistry)
This article reviews recent developments and applications in the area of computational electrochem.
Our focus is on predicting the redn. potentials of electron transfer and other electrochem. reactions and half-reactions in both aq. and nonaq. solns.
Topics covered include various computational protocols that combine quantum mech. electronic structure methods (such as d. functional theory) with implicit-solvent models, explicit-solvent protocols that employ Monte Carlo or mol. dynamics simulations (for example, Car-Parrinello mol. dynamics using the grand canonical ensemble formalism), and the Marcus theory of electronic charge transfer.
We also review computational approaches based on empirical relationships between mol. and electronic structure and electron transfer reactivity.
The scope of the implicit-solvent protocols is emphasized, and the present status of the theory and future directions are outlined. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXhtVCis7vK&md5=f71a2d27cc6550442d7caea9ec3d5a4c35Hernández-Burgos, K.; Burkhardt, S. E.; Rodrıguez-Calero, G. G.; Hennig, R. G.; Abruña, H. D.
Theoretical Studies of Carbonyl-Based Organic Molecules for Energy Storage Applications: The Heteroatom and Substituent Effect. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014,
118,
6046– 6051,  DOI: 10.1021/jp4117613 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar35Theoretical Studies of Carbonyl-Based Organic Molecules for Energy Storage Applications: The Heteroatom and Substituent EffectHernandez-Burgos, Kenneth; Burkhardt, Stephen E.; Rodriguez-Calero, Gabriel G.; Hennig, Richard G.; Abruna, Hector D.Journal of Physical Chemistry C
(2014),
118
(12),
6046-6051CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
Org. compds. represent an attractive choice for cathode materials in rechargeable Li batteries.
Among all the org. functionalities, carbonyl-based org. mols. (C-bOMs) exhibit rapid and generally chem. reversible electrochem. behavior, and their reduced forms (enolates) can have strong ionic interactions with small radii cations (such as Li+).
Also, a wide range of chem. variations/modifications can be performed on C-bOM structures via synthesis.
The authors have systematically studied how to modify their electrochem. behavior by shifting the formal potential, maximizing the interaction of the various redox forms with Li ions, and maximizing the no. of electrons transferred while minimizing the mol. wt. of the compd., thus maximizing their gravimetric energy d.
The authors have performed d.-functional calcns. to predict the formal potentials of the C-bOMs materials (E = 2.0-4.0 V) and identify the most promising candidates.
The addn. of electron-withdrawing and -donating groups can be used to tune the formal potentials and Li ion binding energies.
Also, by using the LUMO energy levels and the aromaticity, which was calcd. with nuclear independent chem. shift (NICS), it was possible to study the stability of these systems.
Also, the authors were able to design and computationally characterize new C-bOMs mols., which represent new potentially high gravimetric energy d. cathode materials for elec. energy storage applications. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2cXjsFOqsrY%253D&md5=ad63966392341748abd0912ad13bbad536Pineda
Flores, S. D.; Martin-Noble, G. C.; Phillips, R. L.; Schrier, J.
Bio-Inspired Electroactive Organic Molecules for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. 1. Thiophenoquinones. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015,
119,
21800– 21809,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b05346 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar36Bio-Inspired Electroactive Organic Molecules for Aqueous Redox Flow Batteries. 1. ThiophenoquinonesPineda Flores, Sergio D.; Martin-Noble, Geoffrey C.; Phillips, Richard L.; Schrier, JoshuaJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2015),
119
(38),
21800-21809CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
Redox flow batteries (RFB) utilizing water-sol. org. redox couples are a new strategy for low-cost, eco-friendly, and durable stationary elec. energy storage.
Previous studies have focused on benzoquinones, naphthoquinones, and anthraquinones as the electroactive species.
Here, we explore a new class of mols.-thiophenoquinones-specifically focusing on the caldariellaquinone-, sulfolobusquinone-, and benzodithiophenoquinone-like frameworks that are used for metabolic processes in thermophilic aerobic Sulfolobus archaebacteria.
We demonstrated that B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) thermochem. calcns. (using the SMD solvation model) reproduce exptl. redn. potentials to within ±0.04 V.
We then studied the effect of amine, hydroxyl, Me, fluoro, phosphonic acid, sulfonic acid, carboxylic acid, and nitro functional group modifications on the redn. potential and Gibbs energy of solvation in water (using d. functional theory) and aq. soly. (using cheminformatics).
Next we enumerated all of the 10 611 possible combinations of functional group substitutions on these frameworks and identified 1056 potential mols. with solubilities exceeding 2 mol/L; of these, 36 mols. have redn. potentials below 0.25 V and 15 mols. above 0.95 V (vs. the std. hydrogen electrode (SHE)).
The combination of high soly. and wide voltage range makes these mols. promising candidates for high performance aq. RFB applications.
Finally, using our data set of ab initio redn. potentials, we developed a cheminformatics model that predicts ab initio redn. potentials to within ±0.09 V based solely on mol. connectivity.
We found that a model trained with as few as 200 examples generates rank-ordered predictions allowed us to identify the highest performance candidates with half the no. of ab initio calcns.
This offers a strategy for improving the tractability of future computational searches for high performance RFB mols. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2MXhsVGjsL%252FP&md5=e68834f5fedcee3b55a1e150d7aa9b8937Yin, W.; Grimaud, A.; Azcarate, I.; Yang, C.; Tarascon, J.-M.
Electrochemical Reduction of CO2 Mediated by Quinone Derivatives: Implication for Li-CO2 Battery. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018,
122,
6546– 6554,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b00109 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar37Electrochemical Reduction of CO2 Mediated by Quinone Derivatives: Implication for Li-CO2 BatteryYin, Wei; Grimaud, Alexis; Azcarate, Iban; Yang, Chunzhen; Tarascon, Jean-MarieJournal of Physical Chemistry C
(2018),
122
(12),
6546-6554CODEN:
JPCCCK;
ISSN:1932-7447.
(American Chemical Society)
The pivotal role of CO2 played in global temp. cycles has motivated the ongoing research on C capture and storage (CCS).
Within this context, Li-CO2 battery, alike the configuration of Li-O2 battery, is proposed as a novel energy storage device with the potential to reduce CO2.
Nevertheless, the highly neg. potential required for the electrochem. redn. of CO2 adds difficulty to the achievement of energy efficient Li-CO2 battery.
Facilitating the electron transfer to this inert mol., which largely dictates the discharge voltage and rate capability of a Li-CO2 battery, is therefore necessary.
Herein, three types of quinones were surveyed, aiming to mediate the redn. of CO2, which is expected to result in lower overpotential than with a direct electron transfer.
The authors demonstrate by cyclic voltammetry that, in the presence of quinones, CO2 redn. proceeds through an intermol. interaction between CO2 and quinone dianion.
Importantly, such catalytic CO2 redn. reaction is assocd. with the mol. structure of quinones, the supporting cation (e.g., Li+), and the electrolyte solvent.
Also, Li-CO2 battery mediated by 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone with Li2CO3 as the ultimate discharge product is achieved.
This study validates the concept of using quinones as chem. catalysts to promote CO2 redn. in Li-CO2 battery.
Besides, battery performance and NMR anal. together suggest that side reactions involving quinone itself and other cell components occur. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC1cXjtlOlsL4%253D&md5=1ee92cf5f0936ecf9957e53f390f18bb38Galbraith, J. M.; Schaefer, H. F.
Concerning the applicability of density functional methods to atomic and molecular negative ions. J. Chem. Phys. 1996,
105,
862– 864,  DOI: 10.1063/1.471933 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar38Concerning the applicability of density functional methods to atomic and molecular negative ionsGalbraith, John Morrison; Schaefer, Henry F., IIIJournal of Chemical Physics
(1996),
105
(2),
862-864CODEN:
JCPSA6;
ISSN:0021-9606.
(American Institute of Physics)
There is concern within theor. chem. that d. functional methods are fundamentally in error for neg. ions.
The authors have tested this hypothesis by evaluating electron affinities for F and F2 with a variety of d. functionals and extremely large, diffuse basis sets.
In addn., the behavior of a known unbound system, Ne-, has been obsd.
No convincing evidence has been found to support the claims of neg. ion instability with d. functional methods. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK28XktValtLk%253D&md5=95a838534c836c13fca7b38ee742a08739Shore, H. B.; Rose, J. H.; Zaremba, E.
Failure of the local exchange approximation in the evaluation of the H– ground state. Phys. Rev. B 1977,
15,
2858– 2861,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.15.2858 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar39Failure of the local exchange approximation in the evaluation of the hydride ion ground stateShore, Herbert B.; Rose, J. H.; Zaremba, E.Physical Review B:
Solid State
(1977),
15
(6),
2858-61CODEN:
PLRBAQ;
ISSN:0556-2805.
The use of the local approxn. for the exchange and correlation energy within the d.-functional formalism (W. Kohn and L. J. Sham, 1965) proved to be much more successful than originally anticipated.
The calcn. of the ground state for weakly bound neg. ions, such as H-, provides a sensitive test of the local approxn., which is known to lead to an incorrect asymptotic form of the single-particle effective potential.
For H-, the result is a qual. incorrect ground state, the electrons being partially delocalized.
This problem can be cor. by constraining the electrons with a fictitious spherical barrier at a large radius.
By using this procedure, the ground-state energy of H- is -0.518 at. units and the electron affinity of H is -0.92 eV. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaE2sXhs1Wmt7c%253D&md5=0e129f5e7c8c73de5cb1db629ef22f8640Schwarz, K.
Instability of stable negative ions in the Xαmethod. A reply to a comment. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1980,
75,
199– 200,  DOI: 10.1016/0009-2614(80)80494-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar40Instability of stable negative ions in the Xα method:
a reply to a commentSchwarz, KarlheinzChemical Physics Letters
(1980),
75
(1),
199-200CODEN:
CHPLBC;
ISSN:0009-2614.
A polemic is given in reply to comments of K. D. Sen (ibid, 1980, 74, 201).
Argument is put forward that neg. ions are correctly calcd. to be stable, if, in the local d. functional formalism, a correction for the self-interaction term is made.
This correction, although it works for atoms or tightly-bound electrons cannot be directly extended to systems with delocalized electrons, for which the instability problem remains. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaL3cXmtFSmu7c%253D&md5=26b86859d3bea31a1142e8bfce8fc38e41Koch, W.; Holthausen, M. A Chemist’s Guide to Density Functional Theory, 2nd ed.; Wiley, 2001.[Crossref], Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.42Glendening, E. D.; Landis, C. R.; Weinhold, F.
NBO 6.0: Natural bond orbital analysis program. J. Comput. Chem. 2013,
34,
1429– 1437,  DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23266 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar42NBO 6.0: Natural bond orbital analysis programGlendening, Eric D.; Landis, Clark R.; Weinhold, FrankJournal of Computational Chemistry
(2013),
34
(16),
1429-1437CODEN:
JCCHDD;
ISSN:0192-8651.
(John Wiley & Sons, Inc.)
We describe principal features of the newly released version, NBO 6.0, of the natural bond orbital anal. program, that provides novel "link-free" interactivity with host electronic structure systems, improved search algorithms and labeling conventions for a broader range of chem. species, and new anal. options that significantly extend the range of chem. applications.
We sketch the motivation and implementation of program changes and describe newer anal. options with illustrative applications. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC3sXjvVegurc%253D&md5=fb48d2b4c2eb40b7754268b53882ccc943Brunavs, M.; Dell, C. P.; Owton, W.
Direct fluorination of the anthraquinone nucleus: scope and application to the synthesis of novel rhein analogues. J. Fluorine Chem. 1994,
68,
201– 203,  DOI: 10.1016/0022-1139(93)03042-K [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar43Direct fluorination of the anthraquinone nucleus: scope and application to the synthesis of novel rhein analogsBrunavs, Michael; Dell, Colin P.; Owton, W. MartinJournal of Fluorine Chemistry
(1994),
68
(2),
201-3CODEN:
JFLCAR;
ISSN:0022-1139.
Direct fluorination of the functionalized anthraquinone di-Me rhein Me ester I (R = H) with Selectfluor proceeds regioselectively to give I (R = F), providing a concise approach to fluorinated compds. of potential medicinal interest.
This represents a new use for Selectfluor which hitherto has only been used for fluorinating relatively activated compds. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK2cXlsl2gtbo%253D&md5=4016314ec798cc34d6260e8857d5824344Kaieda, O.; Hirota, K.; Itoh, H.; Awashima, M.; Nakamura, T.
Method for production of fluorinated quinones. EP 0170190 B1, 1989.Google ScholarThere is no corresponding record for this reference.45Owton, W. M.
Synthesis of 8-fluororhein. J. Chem. Soc., Perkin Trans. 1 1994,
2131– 2135,  DOI: 10.1039/p19940002131 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar45Synthesis of 8-fluororheinOwton, W. MartinJournal of the Chemical Society, Perkin Transactions 1:
Organic and Bio-Organic Chemistry (1972-1999)
(1994),
(15),
2131-5CODEN:
JCPRB4;
ISSN:0300-922X.
8-Fluoro-5-methoxy-1-tetralone has been formylated, aromatized and alkylated to give 8-fluoro-1-isopropoxy-5-methoxy-2-naphthaldehyde.
Condensation of this with a phosphonosuccinate gave, after deprotection, the 4-naphthylbutenoic acid which was cyclized and methylated to give the Et 9-fluoro-10-isopropoxy-4,6-dimethoxy-2-carboxylate.
Removal of the iso-Pr group, dichromate oxidn. and deprotection gave 8-fluorohein I, an analog of the osteoarthritis drug rhein. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADyaK2cXmtVGis7o%253D&md5=0408e1c494c88b00091d1b55c41ce7bd46Wedege, K.; Dražević, E.; Konya, D.; Bentien, A.
Organic Redox Species in Aqueous Flow Batteries: Redox Potentials, Chemical Stability and Solubility. Sci. Rep. 2016,
6,
39101,  DOI: 10.1038/srep39101 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar46Organic Redox Species in Aqueous Flow Batteries: Redox Potentials, Chemical Stability and SolubilityWedege, Kristina; Drazevic, Emil; Konya, Denes; Bentien, AndersScientific Reports
(2016),
6
(),
39101CODEN:
SRCEC3;
ISSN:2045-2322.
(Nature Publishing Group)
Org. mols. are currently investigated as redox species for aq. low-cost redox flow batteries (RFBs).
The envisioned features of using org. redox species are low cost and increased flexibility with respect to tailoring redox potential and soly. from mol. engineering of side groups on the org. redox-active species.
In this paper 33, mainly quinone-based, compds. are studied experimentially in terms of pH dependent redox potential, soly. and stability, combined with single cell battery RFB tests on selected redox pairs.
Data shows that both the soly. and redox potential are detd. by the position of the side groups and only to a small extent by the no. of side groups.
Addnl., the chem. stability and possible degrdn. mechanisms leading to capacity loss over time are discussed.
The main challenge for the development of all-org. RFBs is to identify a redox pair for the pos. side with sufficiently high stability and redox potential that enables battery cell potentials above 1 V. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC28XitFGjtrjP&md5=e95a2c6c3325dbaa572dcf0b9659541047Only the derivatives that give a bound Q(CO2)22– structure by DFT are given.There is no corresponding record for this reference.48Singh, P.; Rheinhardt, J. H.; Olson, J. Z.; Tarakeshwar, P.; Mujica, V.; Buttry, D. A.
Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using a Disulfide-Thiocarbonate Redox Cycle. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017,
139,
1033– 1036,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b10806 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar47Electrochemical Capture and Release of Carbon Dioxide Using a Disulfide-Thiocarbonate Redox CycleSingh, Poonam; Rheinhardt, Joseph H.; Olson, Jarred Z.; Tarakeshwar, Pilarisetty; Mujica, Vladimiro; Buttry, Daniel A.Journal of the American Chemical Society
(2017),
139
(3),
1033-1036CODEN:
JACSAT;
ISSN:0002-7863.
(American Chemical Society)
The authors describe a new electrochem. cycle that enables capture and release of CO2.
The capture agent is benzylthiolate (RS-), generated electrochem. by redn. of benzyldisulfide (RSSR).
Reaction of RS- with CO2 produces a terminal, S-bound monothiocarbonate, RSCO2-, which acts as the CO2 carrier species, much the same as a carbamate serves as the CO2 carrier for amine-based capture strategies.
Oxidn. of the thiocarbonate releases CO2 and regenerates RSSR.
The newly reported S-benzylthiocarbonate (IUPAC name benzylsulfanylformate) was characterized by 1H and 13C NMR, FTIR, and electrochem. anal.
The capture-release cycle was studied in the ionic liq. 1-butyl-1-methylpyrrolidinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (BMP TFSI) and DMF.
Quantum chem. calcns. give a binding energy of CO2 to benzyl thiolate of -66.3 kJ mol-1, consistent with the exptl. observation of formation of a stable CO2 adduct.
The data described here represent the 1st report of electrochem. behavior of a S-bound terminal thiocarbonate. >> More from SciFinder ®https://chemport.cas.org/services/resolver?origin=ACS&resolution=options&coi=1%3ACAS%3A528%3ADC%252BC2sXkslWksg%253D%253D&md5=d5f772d0953ec2a8259221fc7ea4ab11PMID: 28052189.Supporting InformationSupporting InformationARTICLE SECTIONSJump ToThe Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03752.Orbital analysis of species in EEC and EECC, hydrogen bonding in the OH case, substitutions of the Me series, movement from the gas phase to the solution phase, DFT reduction potentials and free energy changes, and the CV of AQ under O2 (PDF)jp2c03752_si_001.pdf (14.49 MB)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system:
http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
In This ArticleFiguresReferencesSupporting InformationRecommended ArticlesPDF
[
3MB]
back
Pair your accounts.
Export articles to Mendeley
Get article recommendations from ACS based on references in your Mendeley library.
Pair your accounts.
Export articles to Mendeley
Get article recommendations from ACS based on references in your Mendeley library.
You’ve supercharged your research process with ACS and Mendeley!
ContinueSTEP 1:Login with ACS IDLogged in SuccessClick to create an ACS IDSTEP 2:Login with MendeleyLogged in SuccessCreate a Mendeley account
Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID.
Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID.
Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID.
Please login with your ACS ID before connecting to your Mendeley account.Login with ACS ID
MENDELEY PAIRING EXPIREDReconnectYour Mendeley pairing has expired. Please reconnect
This website uses cookies to improve your user experience. By continuing to use the site, you are accepting our use of cookies. Read the ACS privacy policy.
CONTINUE
Recently Viewedclose modalRecently ViewedYou have not visited any articles yet, Please visit some articles to see contents here.
✓Thanks for sharing!AddToAnyMore…Live Chat